docs/02-app/02-api-reference/02-file-conventions/01-metadata/manifest.mdx, before:

---
title: manifest.json
description: API Reference for manifest.json file.
---

Add or generate a `manifest.(json|webmanifest)` file that matches the [Web Manifest Specification](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/Manifest) in the **root** of `app` directory to provide information about your web application for the browser.

## Static Manifest file

```json filename="app/manifest.json | app/manifest.webmanifest"
{
  "name": "My Next.js Application",
  "short_name": "Next.js App",
  "description": "An application built with Next.js",
  "start_url": "/"
  // ...
}
```

## Generate a Manifest file

Add a `manifest.js` or `manifest.ts` file that returns a [`Manifest` object](#manifest-object).

> Good to know: `manifest.js` is special Route Handlers that is cached by default unless it uses a [dynamic function](/docs/app/building-your-application/caching#dynamic-functions) or [dynamic config](/docs/app/building-your-application/caching#segment-config-options) option.

```ts filename="app/manifest.ts" switcher
import type { MetadataRoute } from 'next'

export default function manifest(): MetadataRoute.Manifest {
  return {
    name: 'Next.js App',
    short_name: 'Next.js App',
    description: 'Next.js App',
    start_url: '/',
    display: 'standalone',
    background_color: '#fff',
    theme_color: '#fff',
    icons: [
      {
        src: '/favicon.ico',
        sizes: 'any',
        type: 'image/x-icon',
      },
    ],
  }
}
```

```js filename="app/manifest.js" switcher
export default function manifest() {
  return {
    name: 'Next.js App',
    short_name: 'Next.js App',
    description: 'Next.js App',
    start_url: '/',
    display: 'standalone',
    background_color: '#fff',
    theme_color: '#fff',
    icons: [
      {
        src: '/favicon.ico',
        sizes: 'any',
        type: 'image/x-icon',
      },
    ],
  }
}
```

### Manifest Object

The manifest object contains an extensive list of options that may be updated due to new web standards. For information on all the current options, refer to the `MetadataRoute.Manifest` type in your code editor if using [TypeScript](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/typescript#typescript-plugin) or see the [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/Manifest) docs.

Commit message:

docs: add good to know for ignored metadata files

docs/02-app/02-api-reference/02-file-conventions/01-metadata/manifest.mdx, after:

---
title: manifest.json
description: API Reference for manifest.json file.
---

Add or generate a `manifest.(json|webmanifest)` file that matches the [Web Manifest Specification](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/Manifest) in the **root** of `app` directory to provide information about your web application for the browser.

> **Good to know**: By default, manifest file is ignored and not displayed. To enable it, extend the [matcher](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware#matcher) in the `middleware.js` file.

## Static Manifest file

```json filename="app/manifest.json | app/manifest.webmanifest"
{
  "name": "My Next.js Application",
  "short_name": "Next.js App",
  "description": "An application built with Next.js",
  "start_url": "/"
  // ...
}
```

## Generate a Manifest file

Add a `manifest.js` or `manifest.ts` file that returns a [`Manifest` object](#manifest-object).

> Good to know: `manifest.js` is special Route Handlers that is cached by default unless it uses a [dynamic function](/docs/app/building-your-application/caching#dynamic-functions) or [dynamic config](/docs/app/building-your-application/caching#segment-config-options) option.

```ts filename="app/manifest.ts" switcher
import type { MetadataRoute } from 'next'

export default function manifest(): MetadataRoute.Manifest {
  return {
    name: 'Next.js App',
    short_name: 'Next.js App',
    description: 'Next.js App',
    start_url: '/',
    display: 'standalone',
    background_color: '#fff',
    theme_color: '#fff',
    icons: [
      {
        src: '/favicon.ico',
        sizes: 'any',
        type: 'image/x-icon',
      },
    ],
  }
}
```

```js filename="app/manifest.js" switcher
export default function manifest() {
  return {
    name: 'Next.js App',
    short_name: 'Next.js App',
    description: 'Next.js App',
    start_url: '/',
    display: 'standalone',
    background_color: '#fff',
    theme_color: '#fff',
    icons: [
      {
        src: '/favicon.ico',
        sizes: 'any',
        type: 'image/x-icon',
      },
    ],
  }
}
```

### Manifest Object

The manifest object contains an extensive list of options that may be updated due to new web standards. For information on all the current options, refer to the `MetadataRoute.Manifest` type in your code editor if using [TypeScript](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/configuring/typescript#typescript-plugin) or see the [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/Manifest) docs.
