docs/02-app/02-api-reference/02-file-conventions/01-metadata/robots.mdx, before:

---
title: robots.txt
description: API Reference for robots.txt file.
---

Add or generate a `robots.txt` file that matches the [Robots Exclusion Standard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robots.txt#Standard) in the **root** of `app` directory to tell search engine crawlers which URLs they can access on your site.

## Static `robots.txt`

```txt filename="app/robots.txt"
User-Agent: *
Allow: /
Disallow: /private/

Sitemap: https://acme.com/sitemap.xml
```

## Generate a Robots file

Add a `robots.js` or `robots.ts` file that returns a [`Robots` object](#robots-object).

> **Good to know**: `robots.js` is a special Route Handlers that is cached by default unless it uses a [dynamic function](/docs/app/building-your-application/caching#dynamic-functions) or [dynamic config](/docs/app/building-your-application/caching#segment-config-options) option.

```ts filename="app/robots.ts" switcher
import type { MetadataRoute } from 'next'

export default function robots(): MetadataRoute.Robots {
  return {
    rules: {
      userAgent: '*',
      allow: '/',
      disallow: '/private/',
    },
    sitemap: 'https://acme.com/sitemap.xml',
  }
}
```

```js filename="app/robots.js" switcher
export default function robots() {
  return {
    rules: {
      userAgent: '*',
      allow: '/',
      disallow: '/private/',
    },
    sitemap: 'https://acme.com/sitemap.xml',
  }
}
```

Output:

```txt
User-Agent: *
Allow: /
Disallow: /private/

Sitemap: https://acme.com/sitemap.xml
```

### Customizing specific user agents

You can customise how individual search engine bots crawl your site by passing an array of user agents to the `rules` property. For example:

```ts filename="app/robots.ts" switcher
import type { MetadataRoute } from 'next'

export default function robots(): MetadataRoute.Robots {
  return {
    rules: [
      {
        userAgent: 'Googlebot',
        allow: ['/'],
        disallow: '/private/',
      },
      {
        userAgent: ['Applebot', 'Bingbot'],
        disallow: ['/'],
      },
    ],
    sitemap: 'https://acme.com/sitemap.xml',
  }
}
```

```js filename="app/robots.js" switcher
export default function robots() {
  return {
    rules: [
      {
        userAgent: 'Googlebot',
        allow: ['/'],
        disallow: ['/private/'],
      },
      {
        userAgent: ['Applebot', 'Bingbot'],
        disallow: ['/'],
      },
    ],
    sitemap: 'https://acme.com/sitemap.xml',
  }
}
```

Output:

```txt
User-Agent: Googlebot
Allow: /
Disallow: /private/

User-Agent: Applebot
Disallow: /

User-Agent: Bingbot
Disallow: /

Sitemap: https://acme.com/sitemap.xml
```

### Robots object

```tsx
type Robots = {
  rules:
    | {
        userAgent?: string | string[]
        allow?: string | string[]
        disallow?: string | string[]
        crawlDelay?: number
      }
    | Array<{
        userAgent: string | string[]
        allow?: string | string[]
        disallow?: string | string[]
        crawlDelay?: number
      }>
  sitemap?: string | string[]
  host?: string
}
```

## Version History

| Version   | Changes              |
| --------- | -------------------- |
| `v13.3.0` | `robots` introduced. |

Commit message:

docs: add good to know for ignored metadata files

docs/02-app/02-api-reference/02-file-conventions/01-metadata/robots.mdx, after:

---
title: robots.txt
description: API Reference for robots.txt file.
---

Add or generate a `robots.txt` file that matches the [Robots Exclusion Standard](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robots.txt#Standard) in the **root** of `app` directory to tell search engine crawlers which URLs they can access on your site.

> **Good to know**: By default, robots file is ignored and not displayed. To enable it, extend the [matcher](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/middleware#matcher) in the `middleware.js` file.

## Static `robots.txt`

```txt filename="app/robots.txt"
User-Agent: *
Allow: /
Disallow: /private/

Sitemap: https://acme.com/sitemap.xml
```

## Generate a Robots file

Add a `robots.js` or `robots.ts` file that returns a [`Robots` object](#robots-object).

> **Good to know**: `robots.js` is a special Route Handlers that is cached by default unless it uses a [dynamic function](/docs/app/building-your-application/caching#dynamic-functions) or [dynamic config](/docs/app/building-your-application/caching#segment-config-options) option.

```ts filename="app/robots.ts" switcher
import type { MetadataRoute } from 'next'

export default function robots(): MetadataRoute.Robots {
  return {
    rules: {
      userAgent: '*',
      allow: '/',
      disallow: '/private/',
    },
    sitemap: 'https://acme.com/sitemap.xml',
  }
}
```

```js filename="app/robots.js" switcher
export default function robots() {
  return {
    rules: {
      userAgent: '*',
      allow: '/',
      disallow: '/private/',
    },
    sitemap: 'https://acme.com/sitemap.xml',
  }
}
```

Output:

```txt
User-Agent: *
Allow: /
Disallow: /private/

Sitemap: https://acme.com/sitemap.xml
```

### Customizing specific user agents

You can customise how individual search engine bots crawl your site by passing an array of user agents to the `rules` property. For example:

```ts filename="app/robots.ts" switcher
import type { MetadataRoute } from 'next'

export default function robots(): MetadataRoute.Robots {
  return {
    rules: [
      {
        userAgent: 'Googlebot',
        allow: ['/'],
        disallow: '/private/',
      },
      {
        userAgent: ['Applebot', 'Bingbot'],
        disallow: ['/'],
      },
    ],
    sitemap: 'https://acme.com/sitemap.xml',
  }
}
```

```js filename="app/robots.js" switcher
export default function robots() {
  return {
    rules: [
      {
        userAgent: 'Googlebot',
        allow: ['/'],
        disallow: ['/private/'],
      },
      {
        userAgent: ['Applebot', 'Bingbot'],
        disallow: ['/'],
      },
    ],
    sitemap: 'https://acme.com/sitemap.xml',
  }
}
```

Output:

```txt
User-Agent: Googlebot
Allow: /
Disallow: /private/

User-Agent: Applebot
Disallow: /

User-Agent: Bingbot
Disallow: /

Sitemap: https://acme.com/sitemap.xml
```

### Robots object

```tsx
type Robots = {
  rules:
    | {
        userAgent?: string | string[]
        allow?: string | string[]
        disallow?: string | string[]
        crawlDelay?: number
      }
    | Array<{
        userAgent: string | string[]
        allow?: string | string[]
        disallow?: string | string[]
        crawlDelay?: number
      }>
  sitemap?: string | string[]
  host?: string
}
```

## Version History

| Version   | Changes              |
| --------- | -------------------- |
| `v13.3.0` | `robots` introduced. |
