docs/04-architecture/turbopack.mdx, before:

---
title: Turbopack
description: Turbopack is an incremental bundler optimized for JavaScript and TypeScript, written in Rust, and built into Next.js.
---

[Turbopack](https://turbo.build/pack) (beta) is an incremental bundler optimized for JavaScript and TypeScript, written in Rust, and built into Next.js.

## Usage

Turbopack can be used in Next.js in both the `pages` and `app` directories for faster local development. To enable Turbopack, use the `--turbo` flag when running the Next.js development server.

```json filename="package.json" highlight={3}
{
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "next dev --turbo",
    "build": "next build",
    "start": "next start",
    "lint": "next lint"
  }
}
```

## Supported features

Turbopack in Next.js requires zero-configuration for most users and can be extended for more advanced use cases. To learn more about the currently supported features for Turbopack, view the [API Reference](/docs/app/api-reference/next-config-js/turbo).

## Unsupported features

Turbopack currently only supports `next dev` and does not support `next build`. We are currently working on support for builds as we move closer towards stability.

These features are currently not supported:

- [`webpack()`](/docs/app/api-reference/next-config-js/webpack) configuration in `next.config.js`
  - Turbopack replaces Webpack, this means that webpack configuration is not supported.
  - To configure Turbopack, [see the documentation](/docs/app/api-reference/next-config-js/turbo).
  - A subset of [Webpack loaders](/docs/app/api-reference/next-config-js/turbo#webpack-loaders) are supported in Turbopack.
- Babel (`.babelrc`)
  - Turbopack leverages the [SWC](/docs/architecture/nextjs-compiler#why-swc) compiler for all transpilation and optimizations. This means that Babel is not included by default.
  - If you have a `.babelrc` file, you might no longer need it because Next.js includes common Babel plugins as SWC transforms that can be enabled. You can read more about this in the [compiler documentation](docs/architecture/nextjs-compiler#supported-features).
  - If you still need to use Babel after verifying your particular use case is not covered, you can leverage Turbopack's [support for custom webpack loaders](/docs/app/api-reference/next-config-js/turbo#webpack-loaders) to include `babel-loader`.
- Creating a root layout automatically in App Router.
  - This behavior is currently not supported since it changes input files, instead, an error will be shown for you manually add a root layout in the desired location.
- `@next/font` (legacy font support).
  - `@next/font` is deprecated in favor of `next/font`. [`next/font`](/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/fonts) is fully supported with Turbopack.
- `new Worker('file', import.meta.url)`.
  - We are planning to implement this in the future.
- [Relay transforms](/docs/architecture/nextjs-compiler#relay)
  - We are planning to implement this in the future.
- `experimental.nextScriptWorkers`
  - We are planning to implement this in the future.
- `experimental.sri.algorithm`
  - We are planning to implement this in the future.
- [AMP](/docs/pages/building-your-application/configuring/amp).
  - We are currently not planning to support AMP in Next.js with Turbopack.
- Yarn PnP
  - We are currently not planning to support Yarn PnP in Next.js with Turbopack.
- [`experimental.urlImports`](/docs/app/api-reference/next-config-js/urlImports)
  - We are currently not planning to support `experimental.urlImports` in Next.js with Turbopack.

## Generating Trace Files

Trace files allow the Next.js team to investigate and improve performance metrics and memory usage. To generate a trace file, append `NEXT_TURBOPACK_TRACING=1` to the `next dev --turbo` command, this will generate a `.next/trace.log` file.

When reporting issues related to Turbopack performance and memory usage, please include the trace file in your [GitHub](https://github.com/vercel/next.js) issue.

Commit message:

Turbopack build: Skip experimental.esmExternals tests

docs/04-architecture/turbopack.mdx, after:

---
title: Turbopack
description: Turbopack is an incremental bundler optimized for JavaScript and TypeScript, written in Rust, and built into Next.js.
---

[Turbopack](https://turbo.build/pack) (beta) is an incremental bundler optimized for JavaScript and TypeScript, written in Rust, and built into Next.js.

## Usage

Turbopack can be used in Next.js in both the `pages` and `app` directories for faster local development. To enable Turbopack, use the `--turbo` flag when running the Next.js development server.

```json filename="package.json" highlight={3}
{
  "scripts": {
    "dev": "next dev --turbo",
    "build": "next build",
    "start": "next start",
    "lint": "next lint"
  }
}
```

## Supported features

Turbopack in Next.js requires zero-configuration for most users and can be extended for more advanced use cases. To learn more about the currently supported features for Turbopack, view the [API Reference](/docs/app/api-reference/next-config-js/turbo).

## Unsupported features

Turbopack currently only supports `next dev` and does not support `next build`. We are currently working on support for builds as we move closer towards stability.

These features are currently not supported:

- [`webpack()`](/docs/app/api-reference/next-config-js/webpack) configuration in `next.config.js`
  - Turbopack replaces Webpack, this means that webpack configuration is not supported.
  - To configure Turbopack, [see the documentation](/docs/app/api-reference/next-config-js/turbo).
  - A subset of [Webpack loaders](/docs/app/api-reference/next-config-js/turbo#webpack-loaders) are supported in Turbopack.
- Babel (`.babelrc`)
  - Turbopack leverages the [SWC](/docs/architecture/nextjs-compiler#why-swc) compiler for all transpilation and optimizations. This means that Babel is not included by default.
  - If you have a `.babelrc` file, you might no longer need it because Next.js includes common Babel plugins as SWC transforms that can be enabled. You can read more about this in the [compiler documentation](docs/architecture/nextjs-compiler#supported-features).
  - If you still need to use Babel after verifying your particular use case is not covered, you can leverage Turbopack's [support for custom webpack loaders](/docs/app/api-reference/next-config-js/turbo#webpack-loaders) to include `babel-loader`.
- Creating a root layout automatically in App Router.
  - This behavior is currently not supported since it changes input files, instead, an error will be shown for you manually add a root layout in the desired location.
- `@next/font` (legacy font support).
  - `@next/font` is deprecated in favor of `next/font`. [`next/font`](/docs/app/building-your-application/optimizing/fonts) is fully supported with Turbopack.
- `new Worker('file', import.meta.url)`.
  - We are planning to implement this in the future.
- [Relay transforms](/docs/architecture/nextjs-compiler#relay)
  - We are planning to implement this in the future.
- `experimental.nextScriptWorkers`
  - We are planning to implement this in the future.
- `experimental.sri.algorithm`
  - We are planning to implement this in the future.
- `experimental.esmExternals`
  - We are currently not planning to support the legacy esmExternals configuration in Next.js with Turbopack.
- [AMP](/docs/pages/building-your-application/configuring/amp).
  - We are currently not planning to support AMP in Next.js with Turbopack.
- Yarn PnP
  - We are currently not planning to support Yarn PnP in Next.js with Turbopack.
- [`experimental.urlImports`](/docs/app/api-reference/next-config-js/urlImports)
  - We are currently not planning to support `experimental.urlImports` in Next.js with Turbopack.

## Generating Trace Files

Trace files allow the Next.js team to investigate and improve performance metrics and memory usage. To generate a trace file, append `NEXT_TURBOPACK_TRACING=1` to the `next dev --turbo` command, this will generate a `.next/trace.log` file.

When reporting issues related to Turbopack performance and memory usage, please include the trace file in your [GitHub](https://github.com/vercel/next.js) issue.
