docs/02-app/01-building-your-application/01-routing/05-error-handling.mdx, before:

---
title: Error Handling
description: Learn how to display expected errors and handle uncaught exceptions.
related:
  links:
    - app/api-reference/file-conventions/error
---

Errors can be divided into two categories: **expected errors** and **uncaught exceptions**:

- **Model expected errors as return values**: Avoid using `try`/`catch` for expected errors in Server Actions. Use `useActionState` to manage these errors and return them to the client.
- **Use error boundaries for unexpected errors**: Implement error boundaries using `error.tsx` and `global-error.tsx` files to handle unexpected errors and provide a fallback UI.

## Handling Expected Errors

Expected errors are those that can occur during the normal operation of the application, such as those from [server-side form validation](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions-and-mutations#server-side-form-validation) or failed requests. These errors should be handled explicitly and returned to the client.

### Handling Expected Errors from Server Actions

Use the `useActionState` hook (previously `useFormState`) to manage the state of Server Actions, including handling errors. This approach avoids `try`/`catch` blocks for expected errors, which should be modeled as return values rather than thrown exceptions.

```tsx filename="app/actions.ts" switcher
'use server'

import { redirect } from 'next/navigation'

export async function createUser(prevState: any, formData: FormData) {
  const res = await fetch('https://...')
  const json = await res.json()

  if (!res.ok) {
    return { message: 'Please enter a valid email' }
  }

  redirect('/dashboard')
}
```

```jsx filename="app/actions.js" switcher
'use server'

import { redirect } from 'next/navigation'

export async function createUser(prevState, formData) {
  const res = await fetch('https://...')
  const json = await res.json()

  if (!res.ok) {
    return { message: 'Please enter a valid email' }
  }

  redirect('/dashboard')
}
```

Then, you can pass your action to the `useActionState` hook and use the returned `state` to display an error message.

```tsx filename="app/ui/signup.tsx" highlight={11,18-20} switcher
'use client'

import { useActionState } from 'react'
import { createUser } from '@/app/actions'

const initialState = {
  message: '',
}

export function Signup() {
  const [state, formAction] = useActionState(createUser, initialState)

  return (
    <form action={formAction}>
      <label htmlFor="email">Email</label>
      <input type="text" id="email" name="email" required />
      {/* ... */}
      <p aria-live="polite">{state?.message}</p>
      <button>Sign up</button>
    </form>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/ui/signup.js" highlight={11,18-20} switcher
'use client'

import { useActionState } from 'react'
import { createUser } from '@/app/actions'

const initialState = {
  message: '',
}

export function Signup() {
  const [state, formAction] = useActionState(createUser, initialState)

  return (
    <form action={formAction}>
      <label htmlFor="email">Email</label>
      <input type="text" id="email" name="email" required />
      {/* ... */}
      <p aria-live="polite">{state?.message}</p>
      <button>Sign up</button>
    </form>
  )
}
```

You could also use the returned state to display a toast message from the client component.

### Handling Expected Errors from Server Components

When fetching data inside of a Server Component, you can use the response to conditionally render an error message or [`redirect`](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/redirecting#redirect-function).

```tsx filename="app/page.tsx" switcher
export default async function Page() {
  const res = await fetch(`https://...`)
  const data = await res.json()

  if (!res.ok) {
    return 'There was an error.'
  }

  return '...'
}
```

```jsx filename="app/page.js" switcher
export default async function Page() {
  const res = await fetch(`https://...`)
  const data = await res.json()

  if (!res.ok) {
    return 'There was an error.'
  }

  return '...'
}
```

## Uncaught Exceptions

Uncaught exceptions are unexpected errors that indicate bugs or issues that should not occur during the normal flow of your application. These should be handled by throwing errors, which will then be caught by error boundaries.

- **Common:** Handle uncaught errors below the root layout with `error.js`.
- **Optional:** Handle granular uncaught errors with nested `error.js` files (e.g. `app/dashboard/error.js`)
- **Uncommon:** Handle uncaught errors in the root layout with `global-error.js`.

### Using Error Boundaries

Next.js uses error boundaries to handle uncaught exceptions. Error boundaries catch errors in their child components and display a fallback UI instead of the component tree that crashed.

Create an error boundary by adding an `error.tsx` file inside a route segment and exporting a React component:

```tsx filename="app/dashboard/error.tsx" switcher
'use client' // Error boundaries must be Client Components

import { useEffect } from 'react'

export default function Error({
  error,
  reset,
}: {
  error: Error & { digest?: string }
  reset: () => void
}) {
  useEffect(() => {
    // Log the error to an error reporting service
    console.error(error)
  }, [error])

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Something went wrong!</h2>
      <button
        onClick={
          // Attempt to recover by trying to re-render the segment
          () => reset()
        }
      >
        Try again
      </button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/dashboard/error.js" switcher
'use client' // Error boundaries must be Client Components

import { useEffect } from 'react'

export default function Error({ error, reset }) {
  useEffect(() => {
    // Log the error to an error reporting service
    console.error(error)
  }, [error])

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Something went wrong!</h2>
      <button
        onClick={
          // Attempt to recover by trying to re-render the segment
          () => reset()
        }
      >
        Try again
      </button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

If you want errors to bubble up to the parent error boundary, you can `throw` when rendering the `error` component.

### Handling Errors in Nested Routes

Errors will bubble up to the nearest parent error boundary. This allows for granular error handling by placing `error.tsx` files at different levels in the [route hierarchy](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing#component-hierarchy).

<Image
  alt="Nested Error Component Hierarchy"
  srcLight="/docs/light/nested-error-component-hierarchy.png"
  srcDark="/docs/dark/nested-error-component-hierarchy.png"
  width="1600"
  height="687"
/>

### Handling Global Errors

While less common, you can handle errors in the root layout using `app/global-error.js`, located in the root app directory, even when leveraging [internationalization](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/internationalization). Global error UI must define its own `<html>` and `<body>` tags, since it is replacing the root layout or template when active.

```tsx filename="app/global-error.tsx" switcher
'use client' // Error boundaries must be Client Components

export default function GlobalError({
  error,
  reset,
}: {
  error: Error & { digest?: string }
  reset: () => void
}) {
  return (
    // global-error must include html and body tags
    <html>
      <body>
        <h2>Something went wrong!</h2>
        <button onClick={() => reset()}>Try again</button>
      </body>
    </html>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/global-error.js" switcher
'use client' // Error boundaries must be Client Components

export default function GlobalError({ error, reset }) {
  return (
    // global-error must include html and body tags
    <html>
      <body>
        <h2>Something went wrong!</h2>
        <button onClick={() => reset()}>Try again</button>
      </body>
    </html>
  )
}
```

Commit message:

Docs: Add note about `useActionState` and `useFormState` React versions (#68880)
Warn users about React versions for `useFormState` vs. `useActionState`.

- `useFormState` was renamed to `useActionState` in React 19 RC.
- There are no React docs for `useFormState` that we can link to but the
`useActionState` mentions the change.

To avoid having to update all mentions of `useActionState` now, then
update all mentions of `useFormState` in the future, I've kept the
`useActionState` examples as is, and added a callout about the React
versions in the pages that have `useActionState` examples.

docs/02-app/01-building-your-application/01-routing/05-error-handling.mdx, after:

---
title: Error Handling
description: Learn how to display expected errors and handle uncaught exceptions.
related:
  links:
    - app/api-reference/file-conventions/error
---

Errors can be divided into two categories: **expected errors** and **uncaught exceptions**:

- **Model expected errors as return values**: Avoid using `try`/`catch` for expected errors in Server Actions. Use [`useActionState`](https://react.dev/reference/react/useActionState) to manage these errors and return them to the client.
- **Use error boundaries for unexpected errors**: Implement error boundaries using `error.tsx` and `global-error.tsx` files to handle unexpected errors and provide a fallback UI.

> **Good to know**: These examples use React's `useActionState` hook, which is available in React 19 RC. If you are using an earlier version of React, use `useFormState` instead. See the [React docs](https://react.dev/reference/react/useActionState) for more information.

## Handling Expected Errors

Expected errors are those that can occur during the normal operation of the application, such as those from [server-side form validation](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions-and-mutations#server-side-form-validation) or failed requests. These errors should be handled explicitly and returned to the client.

### Handling Expected Errors from Server Actions

Use the [`useActionState`](https://react.dev/reference/react/useActionState) hook to manage the state of Server Actions, including handling errors. This approach avoids `try`/`catch` blocks for expected errors, which should be modeled as return values rather than thrown exceptions.

```tsx filename="app/actions.ts" switcher
'use server'

import { redirect } from 'next/navigation'

export async function createUser(prevState: any, formData: FormData) {
  const res = await fetch('https://...')
  const json = await res.json()

  if (!res.ok) {
    return { message: 'Please enter a valid email' }
  }

  redirect('/dashboard')
}
```

```jsx filename="app/actions.js" switcher
'use server'

import { redirect } from 'next/navigation'

export async function createUser(prevState, formData) {
  const res = await fetch('https://...')
  const json = await res.json()

  if (!res.ok) {
    return { message: 'Please enter a valid email' }
  }

  redirect('/dashboard')
}
```

Then, you can pass your action to the `useActionState` hook and use the returned `state` to display an error message.

```tsx filename="app/ui/signup.tsx" highlight={11,18-20} switcher
'use client'

import { useActionState } from 'react'
import { createUser } from '@/app/actions'

const initialState = {
  message: '',
}

export function Signup() {
  const [state, formAction] = useActionState(createUser, initialState)

  return (
    <form action={formAction}>
      <label htmlFor="email">Email</label>
      <input type="text" id="email" name="email" required />
      {/* ... */}
      <p aria-live="polite">{state?.message}</p>
      <button>Sign up</button>
    </form>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/ui/signup.js" highlight={11,18-20} switcher
'use client'

import { useActionState } from 'react'
import { createUser } from '@/app/actions'

const initialState = {
  message: '',
}

export function Signup() {
  const [state, formAction] = useActionState(createUser, initialState)

  return (
    <form action={formAction}>
      <label htmlFor="email">Email</label>
      <input type="text" id="email" name="email" required />
      {/* ... */}
      <p aria-live="polite">{state?.message}</p>
      <button>Sign up</button>
    </form>
  )
}
```

You could also use the returned state to display a toast message from the client component.

### Handling Expected Errors from Server Components

When fetching data inside of a Server Component, you can use the response to conditionally render an error message or [`redirect`](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/redirecting#redirect-function).

```tsx filename="app/page.tsx" switcher
export default async function Page() {
  const res = await fetch(`https://...`)
  const data = await res.json()

  if (!res.ok) {
    return 'There was an error.'
  }

  return '...'
}
```

```jsx filename="app/page.js" switcher
export default async function Page() {
  const res = await fetch(`https://...`)
  const data = await res.json()

  if (!res.ok) {
    return 'There was an error.'
  }

  return '...'
}
```

## Uncaught Exceptions

Uncaught exceptions are unexpected errors that indicate bugs or issues that should not occur during the normal flow of your application. These should be handled by throwing errors, which will then be caught by error boundaries.

- **Common:** Handle uncaught errors below the root layout with `error.js`.
- **Optional:** Handle granular uncaught errors with nested `error.js` files (e.g. `app/dashboard/error.js`)
- **Uncommon:** Handle uncaught errors in the root layout with `global-error.js`.

### Using Error Boundaries

Next.js uses error boundaries to handle uncaught exceptions. Error boundaries catch errors in their child components and display a fallback UI instead of the component tree that crashed.

Create an error boundary by adding an `error.tsx` file inside a route segment and exporting a React component:

```tsx filename="app/dashboard/error.tsx" switcher
'use client' // Error boundaries must be Client Components

import { useEffect } from 'react'

export default function Error({
  error,
  reset,
}: {
  error: Error & { digest?: string }
  reset: () => void
}) {
  useEffect(() => {
    // Log the error to an error reporting service
    console.error(error)
  }, [error])

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Something went wrong!</h2>
      <button
        onClick={
          // Attempt to recover by trying to re-render the segment
          () => reset()
        }
      >
        Try again
      </button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/dashboard/error.js" switcher
'use client' // Error boundaries must be Client Components

import { useEffect } from 'react'

export default function Error({ error, reset }) {
  useEffect(() => {
    // Log the error to an error reporting service
    console.error(error)
  }, [error])

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Something went wrong!</h2>
      <button
        onClick={
          // Attempt to recover by trying to re-render the segment
          () => reset()
        }
      >
        Try again
      </button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

If you want errors to bubble up to the parent error boundary, you can `throw` when rendering the `error` component.

### Handling Errors in Nested Routes

Errors will bubble up to the nearest parent error boundary. This allows for granular error handling by placing `error.tsx` files at different levels in the [route hierarchy](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing#component-hierarchy).

<Image
  alt="Nested Error Component Hierarchy"
  srcLight="/docs/light/nested-error-component-hierarchy.png"
  srcDark="/docs/dark/nested-error-component-hierarchy.png"
  width="1600"
  height="687"
/>

### Handling Global Errors

While less common, you can handle errors in the root layout using `app/global-error.js`, located in the root app directory, even when leveraging [internationalization](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/internationalization). Global error UI must define its own `<html>` and `<body>` tags, since it is replacing the root layout or template when active.

```tsx filename="app/global-error.tsx" switcher
'use client' // Error boundaries must be Client Components

export default function GlobalError({
  error,
  reset,
}: {
  error: Error & { digest?: string }
  reset: () => void
}) {
  return (
    // global-error must include html and body tags
    <html>
      <body>
        <h2>Something went wrong!</h2>
        <button onClick={() => reset()}>Try again</button>
      </body>
    </html>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/global-error.js" switcher
'use client' // Error boundaries must be Client Components

export default function GlobalError({ error, reset }) {
  return (
    // global-error must include html and body tags
    <html>
      <body>
        <h2>Something went wrong!</h2>
        <button onClick={() => reset()}>Try again</button>
      </body>
    </html>
  )
}
```
