docs/02-app/02-api-reference/02-file-conventions/error.mdx, before:

---
title: error.js
description: API reference for the error.js special file.
related:
  title: Learn more about error handling
  links:
    - app/building-your-application/routing/error-handling
---

An **error** file allows you to handle unexpected runtime errors and display fallback UI.

<Image
  alt="error.js special file"
  srcLight="/docs/light/error-special-file.png"
  srcDark="/docs/dark/error-special-file.png"
  width="1600"
  height="606"
/>

```tsx filename="app/dashboard/error.tsx" switcher
'use client' // Error boundaries must be Client Components

import { useEffect } from 'react'

export default function Error({
  error,
  reset,
}: {
  error: Error & { digest?: string }
  reset: () => void
}) {
  useEffect(() => {
    // Log the error to an error reporting service
    console.error(error)
  }, [error])

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Something went wrong!</h2>
      <button
        onClick={
          // Attempt to recover by trying to re-render the segment
          () => reset()
        }
      >
        Try again
      </button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/dashboard/error.js" switcher
'use client' // Error boundaries must be Client Components

import { useEffect } from 'react'

export default function Error({ error, reset }) {
  useEffect(() => {
    // Log the error to an error reporting service
    console.error(error)
  }, [error])

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Something went wrong!</h2>
      <button
        onClick={
          // Attempt to recover by trying to re-render the segment
          () => reset()
        }
      >
        Try again
      </button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

## How `error.js` Works

`error.js` wraps a route segment and its nested children in a [React Error Boundary](https://react.dev/reference/react/Component#catching-rendering-errors-with-an-error-boundary). When an error throws within the boundary, the `error` component shows as the fallback UI.

<Image
  alt="How error.js works"
  srcLight="/docs/light/error-overview.png"
  srcDark="/docs/dark/error-overview.png"
  width="1600"
  height="903"
/>

> **Good to know**:
>
> - The [React DevTools](https://react.dev/learn/react-developer-tools) allow you to toggle error boundaries to test error states.

## Props

### `error`

An instance of an [`Error`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) object forwarded to the `error.js` Client Component.

> **Good to know:** During development, the `Error` object forwarded to the client will be serialized and include the `message` of the original error for easier debugging. However, **this behavior is different in production** to avoid leaking potentially sensitive details included in the error to the client.

#### `error.message`

- Errors forwarded from Client Components show the original `Error` message.
- Errors forwarded from Server Components show a generic message with an identifier. This is to prevent leaking sensitive details. You can use the identifier, under `errors.digest`, to match the corresponding server-side logs.

#### `error.digest`

An automatically generated hash of the error thrown. It can be used to match the corresponding error in server-side logs.

### `reset`

The cause of an error can sometimes be temporary. In these cases, trying again might resolve the issue.

An error component can use the `reset()` function to prompt the user to attempt to recover from the error. When executed, the function will try to re-render the error boundary's contents. If successful, the fallback error component is replaced with the result of the re-render.

```tsx filename="app/dashboard/error.tsx" switcher
'use client' // Error boundaries must be Client Components

export default function Error({
  error,
  reset,
}: {
  error: Error & { digest?: string }
  reset: () => void
}) {
  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Something went wrong!</h2>
      <button onClick={() => reset()}>Try again</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/dashboard/error.js" switcher
'use client' // Error boundaries must be Client Components

export default function Error({ error, reset }) {
  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Something went wrong!</h2>
      <button onClick={() => reset()}>Try again</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

## `global-error.js`

While less common, you can handle errors in the root layout or template using `app/global-error.js`. Global error UI must define its own `<html>` and `<body>` tags. This file replaces the root layout or template when active.

```tsx filename="app/global-error.tsx" switcher
'use client' // Error boundaries must be Client Components

export default function GlobalError({
  error,
  reset,
}: {
  error: Error & { digest?: string }
  reset: () => void
}) {
  return (
    // global-error must include html and body tags
    <html>
      <body>
        <h2>Something went wrong!</h2>
        <button onClick={() => reset()}>Try again</button>
      </body>
    </html>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/global-error.js" switcher
'use client' // Error boundaries must be Client Components

export default function GlobalError({ error, reset }) {
  return (
    // global-error must include html and body tags
    <html>
      <body>
        <h2>Something went wrong!</h2>
        <button onClick={() => reset()}>Try again</button>
      </body>
    </html>
  )
}
```

> **Good to know**:
>
> - `global-error.js` is only enabled in production. In development, our error overlay will show instead.

## not-found.js

The [`not-found`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/not-found) file shows UI when calling the `notFound()` function within a route segment.

## Version History

| Version   | Changes                    |
| --------- | -------------------------- |
| `v13.1.0` | `global-error` introduced. |
| `v13.0.0` | `error` introduced.        |

Commit message:

docs: add i18n caveat for global-error file #66905 (#67894)
### What?

Clarify the location of the `global-error.tsx` file in the documentation

Related PR:
https://github.com/vercel/next.js/pull/66908

Related issues:
https://github.com/vercel/next.js/issues/61400
https://github.com/vercel/next.js/issues/60245

### Why?

Many users, including myself, find it unintuitive from the [official
documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/internationalization)
about i18n and the example on
[github.com](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/app-dir-i18n-routing)
that the `global-error.tsx` file should be placed in the root of the
`app/` directory instead of `app/[lang]/`. The documentation and example
**do not cover this detail**, which leads users to place
`global-error.tsx` in `app/[lang]/`. As a result, when
`global-error.tsx` **cannot catch errors** in root `layout.tsx`, users
report this as a new issue on Next.js's GitHub, as seen in the related
issues linked above.

Fixes #66905

Co-authored-by: Sam Ko <sam@vercel.com>

docs/02-app/02-api-reference/02-file-conventions/error.mdx, after:

---
title: error.js
description: API reference for the error.js special file.
related:
  title: Learn more about error handling
  links:
    - app/building-your-application/routing/error-handling
---

An **error** file allows you to handle unexpected runtime errors and display fallback UI.

<Image
  alt="error.js special file"
  srcLight="/docs/light/error-special-file.png"
  srcDark="/docs/dark/error-special-file.png"
  width="1600"
  height="606"
/>

```tsx filename="app/dashboard/error.tsx" switcher
'use client' // Error boundaries must be Client Components

import { useEffect } from 'react'

export default function Error({
  error,
  reset,
}: {
  error: Error & { digest?: string }
  reset: () => void
}) {
  useEffect(() => {
    // Log the error to an error reporting service
    console.error(error)
  }, [error])

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Something went wrong!</h2>
      <button
        onClick={
          // Attempt to recover by trying to re-render the segment
          () => reset()
        }
      >
        Try again
      </button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/dashboard/error.js" switcher
'use client' // Error boundaries must be Client Components

import { useEffect } from 'react'

export default function Error({ error, reset }) {
  useEffect(() => {
    // Log the error to an error reporting service
    console.error(error)
  }, [error])

  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Something went wrong!</h2>
      <button
        onClick={
          // Attempt to recover by trying to re-render the segment
          () => reset()
        }
      >
        Try again
      </button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

## How `error.js` Works

`error.js` wraps a route segment and its nested children in a [React Error Boundary](https://react.dev/reference/react/Component#catching-rendering-errors-with-an-error-boundary). When an error throws within the boundary, the `error` component shows as the fallback UI.

<Image
  alt="How error.js works"
  srcLight="/docs/light/error-overview.png"
  srcDark="/docs/dark/error-overview.png"
  width="1600"
  height="903"
/>

> **Good to know**:
>
> - The [React DevTools](https://react.dev/learn/react-developer-tools) allow you to toggle error boundaries to test error states.

## Props

### `error`

An instance of an [`Error`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Error) object forwarded to the `error.js` Client Component.

> **Good to know:** During development, the `Error` object forwarded to the client will be serialized and include the `message` of the original error for easier debugging. However, **this behavior is different in production** to avoid leaking potentially sensitive details included in the error to the client.

#### `error.message`

- Errors forwarded from Client Components show the original `Error` message.
- Errors forwarded from Server Components show a generic message with an identifier. This is to prevent leaking sensitive details. You can use the identifier, under `errors.digest`, to match the corresponding server-side logs.

#### `error.digest`

An automatically generated hash of the error thrown. It can be used to match the corresponding error in server-side logs.

### `reset`

The cause of an error can sometimes be temporary. In these cases, trying again might resolve the issue.

An error component can use the `reset()` function to prompt the user to attempt to recover from the error. When executed, the function will try to re-render the error boundary's contents. If successful, the fallback error component is replaced with the result of the re-render.

```tsx filename="app/dashboard/error.tsx" switcher
'use client' // Error boundaries must be Client Components

export default function Error({
  error,
  reset,
}: {
  error: Error & { digest?: string }
  reset: () => void
}) {
  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Something went wrong!</h2>
      <button onClick={() => reset()}>Try again</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/dashboard/error.js" switcher
'use client' // Error boundaries must be Client Components

export default function Error({ error, reset }) {
  return (
    <div>
      <h2>Something went wrong!</h2>
      <button onClick={() => reset()}>Try again</button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

## `global-error.js`

While less common, you can handle errors in the root layout or template using `app/global-error.js`, located in the root app directory, even when leveraging [internationalization](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/internationalization). Global error UI must define its own `<html>` and `<body>` tags. This file replaces the root layout or template when active.

```tsx filename="app/global-error.tsx" switcher
'use client' // Error boundaries must be Client Components

export default function GlobalError({
  error,
  reset,
}: {
  error: Error & { digest?: string }
  reset: () => void
}) {
  return (
    // global-error must include html and body tags
    <html>
      <body>
        <h2>Something went wrong!</h2>
        <button onClick={() => reset()}>Try again</button>
      </body>
    </html>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/global-error.js" switcher
'use client' // Error boundaries must be Client Components

export default function GlobalError({ error, reset }) {
  return (
    // global-error must include html and body tags
    <html>
      <body>
        <h2>Something went wrong!</h2>
        <button onClick={() => reset()}>Try again</button>
      </body>
    </html>
  )
}
```

> **Good to know**:
>
> - `global-error.js` is only enabled in production. In development, our error overlay will show instead.

## not-found.js

The [`not-found`](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/not-found) file shows UI when calling the `notFound()` function within a route segment.

## Version History

| Version   | Changes                    |
| --------- | -------------------------- |
| `v13.1.0` | `global-error` introduced. |
| `v13.0.0` | `error` introduced.        |
