docs/02-app/01-building-your-application/06-optimizing/01-images.mdx, before:

---
title: Image Optimization
nav_title: Images
description: Optimize your images with the built-in `next/image` component.
related:
  title: API Reference
  description: Learn more about the next/image API.
  links:
    - app/api-reference/components/image
---

{/* The content of this doc is shared between the app and pages router. You can use the `<PagesOnly>Content</PagesOnly>` component to add content that is specific to the Pages Router. Any shared content should not be wrapped in a component. */}

<details>
  <summary>Examples</summary>

- [Image Component](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/image-component)

</details>

According to [Web Almanac](https://almanac.httparchive.org), images account for a huge portion of the typical website’s [page weight](https://almanac.httparchive.org/en/2022/page-weight#content-type-and-file-formats) and can have a sizable impact on your website's [LCP performance](https://almanac.httparchive.org/en/2022/performance#lcp-image-optimization).

The Next.js Image component extends the HTML `<img>` element with features for automatic image optimization:

- **Size Optimization:** Automatically serve correctly sized images for each device, using modern image formats like WebP and AVIF.
- **Visual Stability:** Prevent [layout shift](/learn/seo/web-performance/cls) automatically when images are loading.
- **Faster Page Loads:** Images are only loaded when they enter the viewport using native browser lazy loading, with optional blur-up placeholders.
- **Asset Flexibility:** On-demand image resizing, even for images stored on remote servers

> **🎥 Watch:** Learn more about how to use `next/image` → [YouTube (9 minutes)](https://youtu.be/IU_qq_c_lKA).

## Usage

```js
import Image from 'next/image'
```

You can then define the `src` for your image (either local or remote).

### Local Images

To use a local image, `import` your `.jpg`, `.png`, or `.webp` image files.

Next.js will [automatically determine](#image-sizing) the `width` and `height` of your image based on the imported file. These values are used to prevent [Cumulative Layout Shift](https://nextjs.org/learn/seo/web-performance/cls) while your image is loading.

<AppOnly>

```jsx filename="app/page.js"
import Image from 'next/image'
import profilePic from './me.png'

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <Image
      src={profilePic}
      alt="Picture of the author"
      // width={500} automatically provided
      // height={500} automatically provided
      // blurDataURL="data:..." automatically provided
      // placeholder="blur" // Optional blur-up while loading
    />
  )
}
```

</AppOnly>

<PagesOnly>

```jsx filename="pages/index.js"
import Image from 'next/image'
import profilePic from '../public/me.png'

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <Image
      src={profilePic}
      alt="Picture of the author"
      // width={500} automatically provided
      // height={500} automatically provided
      // blurDataURL="data:..." automatically provided
      // placeholder="blur" // Optional blur-up while loading
    />
  )
}
```

</PagesOnly>

> **Warning:** Dynamic `await import()` or `require()` are _not_ supported. The `import` must be static so it can be analyzed at build time.

### Remote Images

To use a remote image, the `src` property should be a URL string.

Since Next.js does not have access to remote files during the build process, you'll need to provide the [`width`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#width), [`height`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#height) and optional [`blurDataURL`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#blurdataurl) props manually.

The `width` and `height` attributes are used to infer the correct aspect ratio of image and avoid layout shift from the image loading in. The `width` and `height` do _not_ determine the rendered size of the image file. Learn more about [Image Sizing](#image-sizing).

```jsx filename="app/page.js"
import Image from 'next/image'

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <Image
      src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/my-bucket/profile.png"
      alt="Picture of the author"
      width={500}
      height={500}
    />
  )
}
```

To safely allow optimizing images, define a list of supported URL patterns in `next.config.js`. Be as specific as possible to prevent malicious usage. For example, the following configuration will only allow images from a specific AWS S3 bucket:

```js filename="next.config.js"
module.exports = {
  images: {
    remotePatterns: [
      {
        protocol: 'https',
        hostname: 's3.amazonaws.com',
        port: '',
        pathname: '/my-bucket/**',
      },
    ],
  },
}
```

Learn more about [`remotePatterns`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#remotepatterns) configuration. If you want to use relative URLs for the image `src`, use a [`loader`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#loader).

### Domains

Sometimes you may want to optimize a remote image, but still use the built-in Next.js Image Optimization API. To do this, leave the `loader` at its default setting and enter an absolute URL for the Image `src` prop.

To protect your application from malicious users, you must define a list of remote hostnames you intend to use with the `next/image` component.

> Learn more about [`remotePatterns`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#remotepatterns) configuration.

### Loaders

Note that in the [example earlier](#local-images), a partial URL (`"/me.png"`) is provided for a local image. This is possible because of the loader architecture.

A loader is a function that generates the URLs for your image. It modifies the provided `src`, and generates multiple URLs to request the image at different sizes. These multiple URLs are used in the automatic [srcset](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/HTMLImageElement/srcset) generation, so that visitors to your site will be served an image that is the right size for their viewport.

The default loader for Next.js applications uses the built-in Image Optimization API, which optimizes images from anywhere on the web, and then serves them directly from the Next.js web server. If you would like to serve your images directly from a CDN or image server, you can write your own loader function with a few lines of JavaScript.

You can define a loader per-image with the [`loader` prop](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#loader), or at the application level with the [`loaderFile` configuration](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#loaderfile).

## Priority

You should add the `priority` property to the image that will be the [Largest Contentful Paint (LCP) element](https://web.dev/lcp/#what-elements-are-considered) for each page. Doing so allows Next.js to specially prioritize the image for loading (e.g. through preload tags or priority hints), leading to a meaningful boost in LCP.

The LCP element is typically the largest image or text block visible within the viewport of the page. When you run `next dev`, you'll see a console warning if the LCP element is an `<Image>` without the `priority` property.

Once you've identified the LCP image, you can add the property like this:

<PagesOnly>

```jsx filename="app/page.js"
import Image from 'next/image'

export default function Home() {
  return (
    <>
      <h1>My Homepage</h1>
      <Image
        src="/me.png"
        alt="Picture of the author"
        width={500}
        height={500}
        priority
      />
      <p>Welcome to my homepage!</p>
    </>
  )
}
```

</PagesOnly>

<AppOnly>

```jsx filename="app/page.js"
import Image from 'next/image'
import profilePic from '../public/me.png'

export default function Page() {
  return <Image src={profilePic} alt="Picture of the author" priority />
}
```

</AppOnly>

See more about priority in the [`next/image` component documentation](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#priority).

## Image Sizing

One of the ways that images most commonly hurt performance is through _layout shift_, where the image pushes other elements around on the page as it loads in. This performance problem is so annoying to users that it has its own Core Web Vital, called [Cumulative Layout Shift](https://web.dev/cls/). The way to avoid image-based layout shifts is to [always size your images](https://web.dev/optimize-cls/#images-without-dimensions). This allows the browser to reserve precisely enough space for the image before it loads.

Because `next/image` is designed to guarantee good performance results, it cannot be used in a way that will contribute to layout shift, and **must** be sized in one of three ways:

1. Automatically, using a [static import](#local-images)
2. Explicitly, by including a [`width`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#width) and [`height`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#height) property
3. Implicitly, by using [fill](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#fill) which causes the image to expand to fill its parent element.

> **What if I don't know the size of my images?**
>
> If you are accessing images from a source without knowledge of the images' sizes, there are several things you can do:
>
> **Use `fill`**
>
> The [`fill`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#fill) prop allows your image to be sized by its parent element. Consider using CSS to give the image's parent element space on the page along [`sizes`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#sizes) prop to match any media query break points. You can also use [`object-fit`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/object-fit) with `fill`, `contain`, or `cover`, and [`object-position`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/object-position) to define how the image should occupy that space.
>
> **Normalize your images**
>
> If you're serving images from a source that you control, consider modifying your image pipeline to normalize the images to a specific size.
>
> **Modify your API calls**
>
> If your application is retrieving image URLs using an API call (such as to a CMS), you may be able to modify the API call to return the image dimensions along with the URL.

If none of the suggested methods works for sizing your images, the `next/image` component is designed to work well on a page alongside standard `<img>` elements.

## Styling

Styling the Image component is similar to styling a normal `<img>` element, but there are a few guidelines to keep in mind:

- Use `className` or `style`, not `styled-jsx`.
  - In most cases, we recommend using the `className` prop. This can be an imported [CSS Module](/docs/app/building-your-application/styling/css-modules), a [global stylesheet](/docs/app/building-your-application/styling/css-modules#global-styles), etc.
  - You can also use the `style` prop to assign inline styles.
  - You cannot use [styled-jsx](/docs/app/building-your-application/styling/css-in-js) because it's scoped to the current component (unless you mark the style as `global`).
- When using `fill`, the parent element must have `position: relative`
  - This is necessary for the proper rendering of the image element in that layout mode.
- When using `fill`, the parent element must have `display: block`
  - This is the default for `<div>` elements but should be specified otherwise.

## Examples

### Responsive

<Image
  alt="Responsive image filling the width and height of its parent container"
  srcLight="/docs/light/responsive-image.png"
  srcDark="/docs/dark/responsive-image.png"
  width="1600"
  height="629"
/>

```jsx
import Image from 'next/image'
import mountains from '../public/mountains.jpg'

export default function Responsive() {
  return (
    <div style={{ display: 'flex', flexDirection: 'column' }}>
      <Image
        alt="Mountains"
        // Importing an image will
        // automatically set the width and height
        src={mountains}
        sizes="100vw"
        // Make the image display full width
        style={{
          width: '100%',
          height: 'auto',
        }}
      />
    </div>
  )
}
```

### Fill Container

<Image
  alt="Grid of images filling parent container width"
  srcLight="/docs/light/fill-container.png"
  srcDark="/docs/dark/fill-container.png"
  width="1600"
  height="529"
/>

```jsx
import Image from 'next/image'
import mountains from '../public/mountains.jpg'

export default function Fill() {
  return (
    <div
      style={{
        display: 'grid',
        gridGap: '8px',
        gridTemplateColumns: 'repeat(auto-fit, minmax(400px, auto))',
      }}
    >
      <div style={{ position: 'relative', height: '400px' }}>
        <Image
          alt="Mountains"
          src={mountains}
          fill
          sizes="(min-width: 808px) 50vw, 100vw"
          style={{
            objectFit: 'cover', // cover, contain, none
          }}
        />
      </div>
      {/* And more images in the grid... */}
    </div>
  )
}
```

### Background Image

<Image
  alt="Background image taking full width and height of page"
  srcLight="/docs/light/background-image.png"
  srcDark="/docs/dark/background-image.png"
  width="1600"
  height="427"
/>

```jsx
import Image from 'next/image'
import mountains from '../public/mountains.jpg'

export default function Background() {
  return (
    <Image
      alt="Mountains"
      src={mountains}
      placeholder="blur"
      quality={100}
      fill
      sizes="100vw"
      style={{
        objectFit: 'cover',
      }}
    />
  )
}
```

For examples of the Image component used with the various styles, see the [Image Component Demo](https://image-component.nextjs.gallery).

## Other Properties

[**View all properties available to the `next/image` component.**](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image)

## Configuration

The `next/image` component and Next.js Image Optimization API can be configured in the [`next.config.js` file](/docs/app/api-reference/next-config-js). These configurations allow you to [enable remote images](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#remotepatterns), [define custom image breakpoints](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#devicesizes), [change caching behavior](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#caching-behavior) and more.

[**Read the full image configuration documentation for more information.**](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#configuration-options)

Commit message:

Docs: Clarify intrisic vs. rendered size for image height/width properties (#67496)
re: https://x.com/ericbureltech/status/1809129675270046023

docs/02-app/01-building-your-application/06-optimizing/01-images.mdx, after:

---
title: Image Optimization
nav_title: Images
description: Optimize your images with the built-in `next/image` component.
related:
  title: API Reference
  description: Learn more about the next/image API.
  links:
    - app/api-reference/components/image
---

{/* The content of this doc is shared between the app and pages router. You can use the `<PagesOnly>Content</PagesOnly>` component to add content that is specific to the Pages Router. Any shared content should not be wrapped in a component. */}

<details>
  <summary>Examples</summary>

- [Image Component](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/image-component)

</details>

According to [Web Almanac](https://almanac.httparchive.org), images account for a huge portion of the typical website’s [page weight](https://almanac.httparchive.org/en/2022/page-weight#content-type-and-file-formats) and can have a sizable impact on your website's [LCP performance](https://almanac.httparchive.org/en/2022/performance#lcp-image-optimization).

The Next.js Image component extends the HTML `<img>` element with features for automatic image optimization:

- **Size Optimization:** Automatically serve correctly sized images for each device, using modern image formats like WebP and AVIF.
- **Visual Stability:** Prevent [layout shift](/learn/seo/web-performance/cls) automatically when images are loading.
- **Faster Page Loads:** Images are only loaded when they enter the viewport using native browser lazy loading, with optional blur-up placeholders.
- **Asset Flexibility:** On-demand image resizing, even for images stored on remote servers

> **🎥 Watch:** Learn more about how to use `next/image` → [YouTube (9 minutes)](https://youtu.be/IU_qq_c_lKA).

## Usage

```js
import Image from 'next/image'
```

You can then define the `src` for your image (either local or remote).

### Local Images

To use a local image, `import` your `.jpg`, `.png`, or `.webp` image files.

Next.js will [automatically determine](#image-sizing) the intrisic `width` and `height` of your image based on the imported file. These values are used to determine the image ratio and prevent [Cumulative Layout Shift](https://nextjs.org/learn/seo/web-performance/cls) while your image is loading.

<AppOnly>

```jsx filename="app/page.js"
import Image from 'next/image'
import profilePic from './me.png'

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <Image
      src={profilePic}
      alt="Picture of the author"
      // width={500} automatically provided
      // height={500} automatically provided
      // blurDataURL="data:..." automatically provided
      // placeholder="blur" // Optional blur-up while loading
    />
  )
}
```

</AppOnly>

<PagesOnly>

```jsx filename="pages/index.js"
import Image from 'next/image'
import profilePic from '../public/me.png'

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <Image
      src={profilePic}
      alt="Picture of the author"
      // width={500} automatically provided
      // height={500} automatically provided
      // blurDataURL="data:..." automatically provided
      // placeholder="blur" // Optional blur-up while loading
    />
  )
}
```

</PagesOnly>

> **Warning:** Dynamic `await import()` or `require()` are _not_ supported. The `import` must be static so it can be analyzed at build time.

### Remote Images

To use a remote image, the `src` property should be a URL string.

Since Next.js does not have access to remote files during the build process, you'll need to provide the [`width`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#width), [`height`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#height) and optional [`blurDataURL`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#blurdataurl) props manually.

The `width` and `height` attributes are used to infer the correct aspect ratio of image and avoid layout shift from the image loading in. The `width` and `height` do _not_ determine the rendered size of the image file. Learn more about [Image Sizing](#image-sizing).

```jsx filename="app/page.js"
import Image from 'next/image'

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <Image
      src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/my-bucket/profile.png"
      alt="Picture of the author"
      width={500}
      height={500}
    />
  )
}
```

To safely allow optimizing images, define a list of supported URL patterns in `next.config.js`. Be as specific as possible to prevent malicious usage. For example, the following configuration will only allow images from a specific AWS S3 bucket:

```js filename="next.config.js"
module.exports = {
  images: {
    remotePatterns: [
      {
        protocol: 'https',
        hostname: 's3.amazonaws.com',
        port: '',
        pathname: '/my-bucket/**',
      },
    ],
  },
}
```

Learn more about [`remotePatterns`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#remotepatterns) configuration. If you want to use relative URLs for the image `src`, use a [`loader`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#loader).

### Domains

Sometimes you may want to optimize a remote image, but still use the built-in Next.js Image Optimization API. To do this, leave the `loader` at its default setting and enter an absolute URL for the Image `src` prop.

To protect your application from malicious users, you must define a list of remote hostnames you intend to use with the `next/image` component.

> Learn more about [`remotePatterns`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#remotepatterns) configuration.

### Loaders

Note that in the [example earlier](#local-images), a partial URL (`"/me.png"`) is provided for a local image. This is possible because of the loader architecture.

A loader is a function that generates the URLs for your image. It modifies the provided `src`, and generates multiple URLs to request the image at different sizes. These multiple URLs are used in the automatic [srcset](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/HTMLImageElement/srcset) generation, so that visitors to your site will be served an image that is the right size for their viewport.

The default loader for Next.js applications uses the built-in Image Optimization API, which optimizes images from anywhere on the web, and then serves them directly from the Next.js web server. If you would like to serve your images directly from a CDN or image server, you can write your own loader function with a few lines of JavaScript.

You can define a loader per-image with the [`loader` prop](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#loader), or at the application level with the [`loaderFile` configuration](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#loaderfile).

## Priority

You should add the `priority` property to the image that will be the [Largest Contentful Paint (LCP) element](https://web.dev/lcp/#what-elements-are-considered) for each page. Doing so allows Next.js to specially prioritize the image for loading (e.g. through preload tags or priority hints), leading to a meaningful boost in LCP.

The LCP element is typically the largest image or text block visible within the viewport of the page. When you run `next dev`, you'll see a console warning if the LCP element is an `<Image>` without the `priority` property.

Once you've identified the LCP image, you can add the property like this:

<PagesOnly>

```jsx filename="app/page.js"
import Image from 'next/image'

export default function Home() {
  return (
    <>
      <h1>My Homepage</h1>
      <Image
        src="/me.png"
        alt="Picture of the author"
        width={500}
        height={500}
        priority
      />
      <p>Welcome to my homepage!</p>
    </>
  )
}
```

</PagesOnly>

<AppOnly>

```jsx filename="app/page.js"
import Image from 'next/image'
import profilePic from '../public/me.png'

export default function Page() {
  return <Image src={profilePic} alt="Picture of the author" priority />
}
```

</AppOnly>

See more about priority in the [`next/image` component documentation](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#priority).

## Image Sizing

One of the ways that images most commonly hurt performance is through _layout shift_, where the image pushes other elements around on the page as it loads in. This performance problem is so annoying to users that it has its own Core Web Vital, called [Cumulative Layout Shift](https://web.dev/cls/). The way to avoid image-based layout shifts is to [always size your images](https://web.dev/optimize-cls/#images-without-dimensions). This allows the browser to reserve precisely enough space for the image before it loads.

Because `next/image` is designed to guarantee good performance results, it cannot be used in a way that will contribute to layout shift, and **must** be sized in one of three ways:

1. Automatically, using a [static import](#local-images)
2. Manually, by including a [`width`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#width) and [`height`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#height) property used to determine the image's aspect ratio.
3. Implicitly, by using [fill](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#fill) which causes the image to expand to fill its parent element.

> **What if I don't know the size of my images?**
>
> If you are accessing images from a source without knowledge of the images' sizes, there are several things you can do:
>
> **Use `fill`**
>
> The [`fill`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#fill) prop allows your image to be sized by its parent element. Consider using CSS to give the image's parent element space on the page along [`sizes`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#sizes) prop to match any media query break points. You can also use [`object-fit`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/object-fit) with `fill`, `contain`, or `cover`, and [`object-position`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/object-position) to define how the image should occupy that space.
>
> **Normalize your images**
>
> If you're serving images from a source that you control, consider modifying your image pipeline to normalize the images to a specific size.
>
> **Modify your API calls**
>
> If your application is retrieving image URLs using an API call (such as to a CMS), you may be able to modify the API call to return the image dimensions along with the URL.

If none of the suggested methods works for sizing your images, the `next/image` component is designed to work well on a page alongside standard `<img>` elements.

## Styling

Styling the Image component is similar to styling a normal `<img>` element, but there are a few guidelines to keep in mind:

- Use `className` or `style`, not `styled-jsx`.
  - In most cases, we recommend using the `className` prop. This can be an imported [CSS Module](/docs/app/building-your-application/styling/css-modules), a [global stylesheet](/docs/app/building-your-application/styling/css-modules#global-styles), etc.
  - You can also use the `style` prop to assign inline styles.
  - You cannot use [styled-jsx](/docs/app/building-your-application/styling/css-in-js) because it's scoped to the current component (unless you mark the style as `global`).
- When using `fill`, the parent element must have `position: relative`
  - This is necessary for the proper rendering of the image element in that layout mode.
- When using `fill`, the parent element must have `display: block`
  - This is the default for `<div>` elements but should be specified otherwise.

## Examples

### Responsive

<Image
  alt="Responsive image filling the width and height of its parent container"
  srcLight="/docs/light/responsive-image.png"
  srcDark="/docs/dark/responsive-image.png"
  width="1600"
  height="629"
/>

```jsx
import Image from 'next/image'
import mountains from '../public/mountains.jpg'

export default function Responsive() {
  return (
    <div style={{ display: 'flex', flexDirection: 'column' }}>
      <Image
        alt="Mountains"
        // Importing an image will
        // automatically set the width and height
        src={mountains}
        sizes="100vw"
        // Make the image display full width
        style={{
          width: '100%',
          height: 'auto',
        }}
      />
    </div>
  )
}
```

### Fill Container

<Image
  alt="Grid of images filling parent container width"
  srcLight="/docs/light/fill-container.png"
  srcDark="/docs/dark/fill-container.png"
  width="1600"
  height="529"
/>

```jsx
import Image from 'next/image'
import mountains from '../public/mountains.jpg'

export default function Fill() {
  return (
    <div
      style={{
        display: 'grid',
        gridGap: '8px',
        gridTemplateColumns: 'repeat(auto-fit, minmax(400px, auto))',
      }}
    >
      <div style={{ position: 'relative', height: '400px' }}>
        <Image
          alt="Mountains"
          src={mountains}
          fill
          sizes="(min-width: 808px) 50vw, 100vw"
          style={{
            objectFit: 'cover', // cover, contain, none
          }}
        />
      </div>
      {/* And more images in the grid... */}
    </div>
  )
}
```

### Background Image

<Image
  alt="Background image taking full width and height of page"
  srcLight="/docs/light/background-image.png"
  srcDark="/docs/dark/background-image.png"
  width="1600"
  height="427"
/>

```jsx
import Image from 'next/image'
import mountains from '../public/mountains.jpg'

export default function Background() {
  return (
    <Image
      alt="Mountains"
      src={mountains}
      placeholder="blur"
      quality={100}
      fill
      sizes="100vw"
      style={{
        objectFit: 'cover',
      }}
    />
  )
}
```

For examples of the Image component used with the various styles, see the [Image Component Demo](https://image-component.nextjs.gallery).

## Other Properties

[**View all properties available to the `next/image` component.**](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image)

## Configuration

The `next/image` component and Next.js Image Optimization API can be configured in the [`next.config.js` file](/docs/app/api-reference/next-config-js). These configurations allow you to [enable remote images](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#remotepatterns), [define custom image breakpoints](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#devicesizes), [change caching behavior](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#caching-behavior) and more.

[**Read the full image configuration documentation for more information.**](/docs/app/api-reference/components/image#configuration-options)
