docs/02-app/01-building-your-application/06-optimizing/12-third-party-libraries.mdx, before:

---
title: Third Party Libraries
description: Optimize the performance of third-party libraries in your application with the `@next/third-parties` package.
---

{/* The content of this doc is shared between the app and pages router. You can use the `<PagesOnly>Content</PagesOnly>` component to add content that is specific to the Pages Router. Any shared content should not be wrapped in a component. */}

**`@next/third-parties`** is a library that provides a collection of components and utilities that improve the performance and developer experience of loading popular third-party libraries in your Next.js application.

All third-party integrations provided by `@next/third-parties` have been optimized for performance and ease of use.

## Getting Started

To get started, install the `@next/third-parties` library:

```bash filename="Terminal"
npm install @next/third-parties@latest next@latest
```

{/* To do: Remove this paragraph once package becomes stable */}

`@next/third-parties` is currently an **experimental** library under active development. We recommend installing it with the **latest** or **canary** flags while we work on adding more third-party integrations.

## Google Third-Parties

All supported third-party libraries from Google can be imported from `@next/third-parties/google`.

### Google Tag Manager

The `GoogleTagManager` component can be used to instantiate a [Google Tag Manager](https://developers.google.com/tag-platform/tag-manager) container to your page. By default, it fetches the original inline script after hydration occurs on the page.

<AppOnly>

To load Google Tag Manager for all routes, include the component directly in your root layout and pass in your GTM container ID:

```tsx filename="app/layout.tsx" switcher
import { GoogleTagManager } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function RootLayout({
  children,
}: {
  children: React.ReactNode
}) {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <GoogleTagManager gtmId="GTM-XYZ" />
      <body>{children}</body>
    </html>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/layout.js" switcher
import { GoogleTagManager } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function RootLayout({ children }) {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <GoogleTagManager gtmId="GTM-XYZ" />
      <body>{children}</body>
    </html>
  )
}
```

</AppOnly>

<PagesOnly>

To load Google Tag Manager for all routes, include the component directly in your custom `_app` and
pass in your GTM container ID:

```jsx filename="pages/_app.js"
import { GoogleTagManager } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function MyApp({ Component, pageProps }) {
  return (
    <>
      <Component {...pageProps} />
      <GoogleTagManager gtmId="GTM-XYZ" />
    </>
  )
}
```

</PagesOnly>

To load Google Tag Manager for a single route, include the component in your page file:

<AppOnly>

```jsx filename="app/page.js"
import { GoogleTagManager } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function Page() {
  return <GoogleTagManager gtmId="GTM-XYZ" />
}
```

</AppOnly>

<PagesOnly>

```jsx filename="pages/index.js"
import { GoogleTagManager } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function Page() {
  return <GoogleTagManager gtmId="GTM-XYZ" />
}
```

</PagesOnly>

#### Sending Events

The `sendGTMEvent` function can be used to track user interactions on your page by sending events
using the `dataLayer` object. For this function to work, the `<GoogleTagManager />` component must be
included in either a parent layout, page, or component, or directly in the same file.

<AppOnly>

```jsx filename="app/page.js"
'use client'

import { sendGTMEvent } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export function EventButton() {
  return (
    <div>
      <button
        onClick={() => sendGTMEvent('event', 'buttonClicked', { value: 'xyz' })}
      >
        Send Event
      </button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

</AppOnly>

<PagesOnly>

```jsx filename="pages/index.js"
import { sendGTMEvent } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export function EventButton() {
  return (
    <div>
      <button
        onClick={() => sendGTMEvent('event', 'buttonClicked', { value: 'xyz' })}
      >
        Send Event
      </button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

</PagesOnly>

Refer to the Tag Manager [developer
documentation](https://developers.google.com/tag-platform/tag-manager/datalayer) to learn about the
different variables and events that can be passed into the function.

#### Options

Options to pass to the Google Tag Manager. For a full list of options, read the [Google Tag Manager
docs](https://developers.google.com/tag-platform/tag-manager/datalayer).

| Name            | Type     | Description                                                              |
| --------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `gtmId`         | Required | Your GTM container ID. Usually starts with `GTM-`.                       |
| `dataLayer`     | Optional | Data layer object to instantiate the container with.                     |
| `dataLayerName` | Optional | Name of the data layer. Defaults to `dataLayer`.                         |
| `auth`          | Optional | Value of authentication parameter (`gtm_auth`) for environment snippets. |
| `preview`       | Optional | Value of preview parameter (`gtm_preview`) for environment snippets.     |

### Google Analytics

The `GoogleAnalytics` component can be used to include [Google Analytics
4](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/ga4) to your page via the Google tag
(`gtag.js`). By default, it fetches the original scripts after hydration occurs on the page.

> **Recommendation**: If Google Tag Manager is already included in your application, you can
> configure Google Analytics directly using it, rather than including Google Analytics as a separate
> component. Refer to the
> [documentation](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/ga4/tag-options#what-is-gtm)
> to learn more about the differences between Tag Manager and `gtag.js`.

<AppOnly>

To load Google Analytics for all routes, include the component directly in your root layout and pass
in your measurement ID:

```tsx filename="app/layout.tsx" switcher
import { GoogleAnalytics } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function RootLayout({
  children,
}: {
  children: React.ReactNode
}) {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <body>{children}</body>
      <GoogleAnalytics gaId="G-XYZ" />
    </html>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/layout.js" switcher
import { GoogleAnalytics } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function RootLayout({ children }) {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <body>{children}</body>
      <GoogleAnalytics gaId="G-XYZ" />
    </html>
  )
}
```

</AppOnly>

<PagesOnly>

To load Google Analytics for all routes, include the component directly in your custom `_app` and
pass in your measurement ID:

```jsx filename="pages/_app.js"
import { GoogleAnalytics } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function MyApp({ Component, pageProps }) {
  return (
    <>
      <Component {...pageProps} />
      <GoogleAnalytics gaId="G-XYZ" />
    </>
  )
}
```

</PagesOnly>

To load Google Analytics for a single route, include the component in your page file:

<AppOnly>

```jsx filename="app/page.js"
import { GoogleAnalytics } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function Page() {
  return <GoogleAnalytics gaId="G-XYZ" />
}
```

</AppOnly>

<PagesOnly>

```jsx filename="pages/index.js"
import { GoogleAnalytics } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function Page() {
  return <GoogleAnalytics gaId="G-XYZ" />
}
```

</PagesOnly>

#### Sending Events

The `sendGAEvent` function can be used to measure user interactions on your page by sending events
using the `dataLayer` object. For this function to work, the `<GoogleAnalytics />` component must be
included in either a parent layout, page, or component, or directly in the same file.

<AppOnly>

```jsx filename="app/page.js"
'use client'

import { sendGAEvent } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export function EventButton() {
  return (
    <div>
      <button
        onClick={() => sendGAEvent('event', 'buttonClicked', { value: 'xyz' })}
      >
        Send Event
      </button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

</AppOnly>

<PagesOnly>

```jsx filename="pages/index.js"
import { sendGAEvent } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export function EventButton() {
  return (
    <div>
      <button
        onClick={() => sendGAEvent('event', 'buttonClicked', { value: 'xyz' })}
      >
        Send Event
      </button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

</PagesOnly>

Refer to the Google Analytics [developer
documentation](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/ga4/event-parameters) to learn
more about event parameters.

#### Tracking Pageviews

Google Analytics automatically tracks pageviews when the browser history state changes. This means
that client-side navigations between Next.js routes will send pageview data without any configuration.

To ensure that client-side navigations are being measured correctly, verify that the [_“Enhanced
Measurement”_](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/9216061#enable_disable) property is
enabled in your Admin panel and the _“Page changes based on browser history events”_ checkbox is
selected.

> **Note**: If you decide to manually send pageview events, make sure to disable the default
> pageview measurement to avoid having duplicate data. Refer to the Google Analytics [developer
> documentation](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/ga4/views?client_type=gtag#manual_pageviews)
> to learn more.

#### Options

Options to pass to the `<GoogleAnalytics>` component.

| Name            | Type     | Description                                                                                            |
| --------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `gaId`          | Required | Your [measurement ID](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/12270356). Usually starts with `G-`. |
| `dataLayerName` | Optional | Name of the data layer. Defaults to `dataLayer`.                                                       |

### Google Maps Embed

The `GoogleMapsEmbed` component can be used to add a [Google Maps
Embed](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/embed/embedding-map) to your page. By
default, it uses the `loading` attribute to lazy-load the embed below the fold.

<AppOnly>

```jsx filename="app/page.js"
import { GoogleMapsEmbed } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <GoogleMapsEmbed
      apiKey="XYZ"
      height={200}
      width="100%"
      mode="place"
      q="Brooklyn+Bridge,New+York,NY"
    />
  )
}
```

</AppOnly>

<PagesOnly>

```jsx filename="pages/index.js"
import { GoogleMapsEmbed } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <GoogleMapsEmbed
      apiKey="XYZ"
      height={200}
      width="100%"
      mode="place"
      q="Brooklyn+Bridge,New+York,NY"
    />
  )
}
```

</PagesOnly>

#### Options

Options to pass to the Google Maps Embed. For a full list of options, read the [Google Map Embed
docs](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/embed/embedding-map).

| Name              | Type     | Description                                                                                         |
| ----------------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `apiKey`          | Required | Your api key.                                                                                       |
| `mode`            | Required | [Map mode](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/embed/embedding-map#choosing_map_modes) |
| `height`          | Optional | Height of the embed. Defaults to `auto`.                                                            |
| `width`           | Optional | Width of the embed. Defaults to `auto`.                                                             |
| `style`           | Optional | Pass styles to the iframe.                                                                          |
| `allowfullscreen` | Optional | Property to allow certain map parts to go full screen.                                              |
| `loading`         | Optional | Defaults to lazy. Consider changing if you know your embed will be above the fold.                  |
| `q`               | Optional | Defines map marker location. _This may be required depending on the map mode_.                      |
| `center`          | Optional | Defines the center of the map view.                                                                 |
| `zoom`            | Optional | Sets initial zoom level of the map.                                                                 |
| `maptype`         | Optional | Defines type of map tiles to load.                                                                  |
| `language`        | Optional | Defines the language to use for UI elements and for the display of labels on map tiles.             |
| `region`          | Optional | Defines the appropriate borders and labels to display, based on geo-political sensitivities.        |

### YouTube Embed

The `YouTubeEmbed` component can be used to load and display a YouTube embed. This component loads
faster by using [`lite-youtube-embed`](https://github.com/paulirish/lite-youtube-embed) under the
hood.

<AppOnly>

```jsx filename="app/page.js"
import { YouTubeEmbed } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function Page() {
  return <YouTubeEmbed videoid="ogfYd705cRs" height={400} params="controls=0" />
}
```

</AppOnly>

<PagesOnly>

```jsx filename="pages/index.js"
import { YouTubeEmbed } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function Page() {
  return <YouTubeEmbed videoid="ogfYd705cRs" height={400} params="controls=0" />
}
```

</PagesOnly>

#### Options

| Name        | Type     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ----------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `videoid`   | Required | YouTube video id.                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `width`     | Optional | Width of the video container. Defaults to `auto`                                                                                                                                                             |
| `height`    | Optional | Height of the video container. Defaults to `auto`                                                                                                                                                            |
| `playlabel` | Optional | A visually hidden label for the play button for accessibility.                                                                                                                                               |
| `params`    | Optional | The video player params defined [here](https://developers.google.com/youtube/player_parameters#Parameters). <br/> Params are passed as a query param string. <br/> Eg: `params="controls=0&start=10&end=30"` |
| `style`     | Optional | Used to apply styles to the video container.                                                                                                                                                                 |

Commit message:

docs(third-parties): add description of `gtmScriptUrl` option for GTM

docs/02-app/01-building-your-application/06-optimizing/12-third-party-libraries.mdx, after:

---
title: Third Party Libraries
description: Optimize the performance of third-party libraries in your application with the `@next/third-parties` package.
---

{/* The content of this doc is shared between the app and pages router. You can use the `<PagesOnly>Content</PagesOnly>` component to add content that is specific to the Pages Router. Any shared content should not be wrapped in a component. */}

**`@next/third-parties`** is a library that provides a collection of components and utilities that improve the performance and developer experience of loading popular third-party libraries in your Next.js application.

All third-party integrations provided by `@next/third-parties` have been optimized for performance and ease of use.

## Getting Started

To get started, install the `@next/third-parties` library:

```bash filename="Terminal"
npm install @next/third-parties@latest next@latest
```

{/* To do: Remove this paragraph once package becomes stable */}

`@next/third-parties` is currently an **experimental** library under active development. We recommend installing it with the **latest** or **canary** flags while we work on adding more third-party integrations.

## Google Third-Parties

All supported third-party libraries from Google can be imported from `@next/third-parties/google`.

### Google Tag Manager

The `GoogleTagManager` component can be used to instantiate a [Google Tag Manager](https://developers.google.com/tag-platform/tag-manager) container to your page. By default, it fetches the original inline script after hydration occurs on the page.

<AppOnly>

To load Google Tag Manager for all routes, include the component directly in your root layout and pass in your GTM container ID:

```tsx filename="app/layout.tsx" switcher
import { GoogleTagManager } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function RootLayout({
  children,
}: {
  children: React.ReactNode
}) {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <GoogleTagManager gtmId="GTM-XYZ" />
      <body>{children}</body>
    </html>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/layout.js" switcher
import { GoogleTagManager } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function RootLayout({ children }) {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <GoogleTagManager gtmId="GTM-XYZ" />
      <body>{children}</body>
    </html>
  )
}
```

</AppOnly>

<PagesOnly>

To load Google Tag Manager for all routes, include the component directly in your custom `_app` and
pass in your GTM container ID:

```jsx filename="pages/_app.js"
import { GoogleTagManager } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function MyApp({ Component, pageProps }) {
  return (
    <>
      <Component {...pageProps} />
      <GoogleTagManager gtmId="GTM-XYZ" />
    </>
  )
}
```

</PagesOnly>

To load Google Tag Manager for a single route, include the component in your page file:

<AppOnly>

```jsx filename="app/page.js"
import { GoogleTagManager } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function Page() {
  return <GoogleTagManager gtmId="GTM-XYZ" />
}
```

</AppOnly>

<PagesOnly>

```jsx filename="pages/index.js"
import { GoogleTagManager } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function Page() {
  return <GoogleTagManager gtmId="GTM-XYZ" />
}
```

</PagesOnly>

#### Sending Events

The `sendGTMEvent` function can be used to track user interactions on your page by sending events
using the `dataLayer` object. For this function to work, the `<GoogleTagManager />` component must be
included in either a parent layout, page, or component, or directly in the same file.

<AppOnly>

```jsx filename="app/page.js"
'use client'

import { sendGTMEvent } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export function EventButton() {
  return (
    <div>
      <button
        onClick={() => sendGTMEvent('event', 'buttonClicked', { value: 'xyz' })}
      >
        Send Event
      </button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

</AppOnly>

<PagesOnly>

```jsx filename="pages/index.js"
import { sendGTMEvent } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export function EventButton() {
  return (
    <div>
      <button
        onClick={() => sendGTMEvent('event', 'buttonClicked', { value: 'xyz' })}
      >
        Send Event
      </button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

</PagesOnly>

Refer to the Tag Manager [developer
documentation](https://developers.google.com/tag-platform/tag-manager/datalayer) to learn about the
different variables and events that can be passed into the function.

#### Server-side Tagging

If you're using a server-side tag manager and serving `gtm.js` scripts from your tagging server you can
use `gtmScriptUrl` option to specify the URL of the script.

#### Options

Options to pass to the Google Tag Manager. For a full list of options, read the [Google Tag Manager
docs](https://developers.google.com/tag-platform/tag-manager/datalayer).

| Name            | Type     | Description                                                              |
| --------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `gtmId`         | Required | Your GTM container ID. Usually starts with `GTM-`.                       |
| `gtmScriptUrl`  | Optional | GTM script URL. Defaults to `https://www.googletagmanager.com/gtm.js`.          |
| `dataLayer`     | Optional | Data layer object to instantiate the container with.                     |
| `dataLayerName` | Optional | Name of the data layer. Defaults to `dataLayer`.                         |
| `auth`          | Optional | Value of authentication parameter (`gtm_auth`) for environment snippets. |
| `preview`       | Optional | Value of preview parameter (`gtm_preview`) for environment snippets.     |

### Google Analytics

The `GoogleAnalytics` component can be used to include [Google Analytics
4](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/ga4) to your page via the Google tag
(`gtag.js`). By default, it fetches the original scripts after hydration occurs on the page.

> **Recommendation**: If Google Tag Manager is already included in your application, you can
> configure Google Analytics directly using it, rather than including Google Analytics as a separate
> component. Refer to the
> [documentation](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/ga4/tag-options#what-is-gtm)
> to learn more about the differences between Tag Manager and `gtag.js`.

<AppOnly>

To load Google Analytics for all routes, include the component directly in your root layout and pass
in your measurement ID:

```tsx filename="app/layout.tsx" switcher
import { GoogleAnalytics } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function RootLayout({
  children,
}: {
  children: React.ReactNode
}) {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <body>{children}</body>
      <GoogleAnalytics gaId="G-XYZ" />
    </html>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/layout.js" switcher
import { GoogleAnalytics } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function RootLayout({ children }) {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <body>{children}</body>
      <GoogleAnalytics gaId="G-XYZ" />
    </html>
  )
}
```

</AppOnly>

<PagesOnly>

To load Google Analytics for all routes, include the component directly in your custom `_app` and
pass in your measurement ID:

```jsx filename="pages/_app.js"
import { GoogleAnalytics } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function MyApp({ Component, pageProps }) {
  return (
    <>
      <Component {...pageProps} />
      <GoogleAnalytics gaId="G-XYZ" />
    </>
  )
}
```

</PagesOnly>

To load Google Analytics for a single route, include the component in your page file:

<AppOnly>

```jsx filename="app/page.js"
import { GoogleAnalytics } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function Page() {
  return <GoogleAnalytics gaId="G-XYZ" />
}
```

</AppOnly>

<PagesOnly>

```jsx filename="pages/index.js"
import { GoogleAnalytics } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function Page() {
  return <GoogleAnalytics gaId="G-XYZ" />
}
```

</PagesOnly>

#### Sending Events

The `sendGAEvent` function can be used to measure user interactions on your page by sending events
using the `dataLayer` object. For this function to work, the `<GoogleAnalytics />` component must be
included in either a parent layout, page, or component, or directly in the same file.

<AppOnly>

```jsx filename="app/page.js"
'use client'

import { sendGAEvent } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export function EventButton() {
  return (
    <div>
      <button
        onClick={() => sendGAEvent('event', 'buttonClicked', { value: 'xyz' })}
      >
        Send Event
      </button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

</AppOnly>

<PagesOnly>

```jsx filename="pages/index.js"
import { sendGAEvent } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export function EventButton() {
  return (
    <div>
      <button
        onClick={() => sendGAEvent('event', 'buttonClicked', { value: 'xyz' })}
      >
        Send Event
      </button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

</PagesOnly>

Refer to the Google Analytics [developer
documentation](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/ga4/event-parameters) to learn
more about event parameters.

#### Tracking Pageviews

Google Analytics automatically tracks pageviews when the browser history state changes. This means
that client-side navigations between Next.js routes will send pageview data without any configuration.

To ensure that client-side navigations are being measured correctly, verify that the [_“Enhanced
Measurement”_](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/9216061#enable_disable) property is
enabled in your Admin panel and the _“Page changes based on browser history events”_ checkbox is
selected.

> **Note**: If you decide to manually send pageview events, make sure to disable the default
> pageview measurement to avoid having duplicate data. Refer to the Google Analytics [developer
> documentation](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/ga4/views?client_type=gtag#manual_pageviews)
> to learn more.

#### Options

Options to pass to the `<GoogleAnalytics>` component.

| Name            | Type     | Description                                                                                            |
| --------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `gaId`          | Required | Your [measurement ID](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/12270356). Usually starts with `G-`. |
| `dataLayerName` | Optional | Name of the data layer. Defaults to `dataLayer`.                                                       |

### Google Maps Embed

The `GoogleMapsEmbed` component can be used to add a [Google Maps
Embed](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/embed/embedding-map) to your page. By
default, it uses the `loading` attribute to lazy-load the embed below the fold.

<AppOnly>

```jsx filename="app/page.js"
import { GoogleMapsEmbed } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <GoogleMapsEmbed
      apiKey="XYZ"
      height={200}
      width="100%"
      mode="place"
      q="Brooklyn+Bridge,New+York,NY"
    />
  )
}
```

</AppOnly>

<PagesOnly>

```jsx filename="pages/index.js"
import { GoogleMapsEmbed } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <GoogleMapsEmbed
      apiKey="XYZ"
      height={200}
      width="100%"
      mode="place"
      q="Brooklyn+Bridge,New+York,NY"
    />
  )
}
```

</PagesOnly>

#### Options

Options to pass to the Google Maps Embed. For a full list of options, read the [Google Map Embed
docs](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/embed/embedding-map).

| Name              | Type     | Description                                                                                         |
| ----------------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `apiKey`          | Required | Your api key.                                                                                       |
| `mode`            | Required | [Map mode](https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation/embed/embedding-map#choosing_map_modes) |
| `height`          | Optional | Height of the embed. Defaults to `auto`.                                                            |
| `width`           | Optional | Width of the embed. Defaults to `auto`.                                                             |
| `style`           | Optional | Pass styles to the iframe.                                                                          |
| `allowfullscreen` | Optional | Property to allow certain map parts to go full screen.                                              |
| `loading`         | Optional | Defaults to lazy. Consider changing if you know your embed will be above the fold.                  |
| `q`               | Optional | Defines map marker location. _This may be required depending on the map mode_.                      |
| `center`          | Optional | Defines the center of the map view.                                                                 |
| `zoom`            | Optional | Sets initial zoom level of the map.                                                                 |
| `maptype`         | Optional | Defines type of map tiles to load.                                                                  |
| `language`        | Optional | Defines the language to use for UI elements and for the display of labels on map tiles.             |
| `region`          | Optional | Defines the appropriate borders and labels to display, based on geo-political sensitivities.        |

### YouTube Embed

The `YouTubeEmbed` component can be used to load and display a YouTube embed. This component loads
faster by using [`lite-youtube-embed`](https://github.com/paulirish/lite-youtube-embed) under the
hood.

<AppOnly>

```jsx filename="app/page.js"
import { YouTubeEmbed } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function Page() {
  return <YouTubeEmbed videoid="ogfYd705cRs" height={400} params="controls=0" />
}
```

</AppOnly>

<PagesOnly>

```jsx filename="pages/index.js"
import { YouTubeEmbed } from '@next/third-parties/google'

export default function Page() {
  return <YouTubeEmbed videoid="ogfYd705cRs" height={400} params="controls=0" />
}
```

</PagesOnly>

#### Options

| Name        | Type     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ----------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `videoid`   | Required | YouTube video id.                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `width`     | Optional | Width of the video container. Defaults to `auto`                                                                                                                                                             |
| `height`    | Optional | Height of the video container. Defaults to `auto`                                                                                                                                                            |
| `playlabel` | Optional | A visually hidden label for the play button for accessibility.                                                                                                                                               |
| `params`    | Optional | The video player params defined [here](https://developers.google.com/youtube/player_parameters#Parameters). <br/> Params are passed as a query param string. <br/> Eg: `params="controls=0&start=10&end=30"` |
| `style`     | Optional | Used to apply styles to the video container.                                                                                                                                                                 |
