examples/active-class-name/README.md, before:

# activeClassName example

ReactRouter has a convenience property on the `Link` element to allow an author to set the _active_ className on a link. This example replicates that functionality using Next's own `Link`.

## Deploy your own

Deploy the example using [Vercel](https://vercel.com?utm_source=github&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=next-example) or preview live with [StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com/github/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/active-class-name)

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/active-class-name&project-name=active-class-name&repository-name=active-class-name)

## How to use

Execute [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app) with [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/init), [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/cli/create/), or [pnpm](https://pnpm.io) to bootstrap the example:

```bash
npx create-next-app --example active-class-name active-class-name-app
```

```bash
yarn create next-app --example active-class-name active-class-name-app
```

```bash
pnpm create next-app --example active-class-name active-class-name-app
```

Deploy it to the cloud with [Vercel](https://vercel.com/new?utm_source=github&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=next-example) ([Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/deployment)).

Commit message:

Migrated the active-class-name component to App router

examples/active-class-name/README.md, after:

# activeClassName example

Next.js has a convenience property on the `Link` element to allow an author to set the _active_ className on a link. This example replicates that functionality using Next's own `Link` component with the new app router.

## Deploy your own

Deploy the example using [Vercel](https://vercel.com?utm_source=github&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=next-example) or preview live with [StackBlitz](https://stackblitz.com/github/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/active-class-name)

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/active-class-name&project-name=active-class-name&repository-name=active-class-name)

## How to use

Execute [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app) with [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/init), [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/cli/create/), or [pnpm](https://pnpm.io) to bootstrap the example:

```bash
npx create-next-app --example active-class-name active-class-name-app
```

```bash
yarn create next-app --example active-class-name active-class-name-app
```

```bash
pnpm create next-app --example active-class-name active-class-name-app
```

Deploy it to the cloud with [Vercel](https://vercel.com/new?utm_source=github&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=next-example) ([Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/deployment)).
