examples/monaco-editor/README.md, before:

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app).

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

This project uses [`next/font`](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/font-optimization) to automatically optimize and load Inter, a custom Google Font.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/deployment) for more details.

Commit message:

adding the monaco-editor example

examples/monaco-editor/README.md, after:

# Monaco Editor Example

A next.js app with monaco-editor. This works for both App router and Pages router (the example only uses app router, but pages router should be very similar).

Keep in mind that in the development environment, the browser can load more than 10MB of data per request (depends on how many languages are enabled in next.config.mjs). In production the bundle size is much smaller.

If you enable turbopack, there will be some incompability issues (the browser will throw errors/warnings). The language workers will not be created and it will fall back to loading web worker code in main thread, which might cause UI freezes.

## Deploy your own

Deploy the example using [Vercel](https://vercel.com?utm_source=github&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=next-example):

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/monaco-editor&project-name=monaco-editor&repository-name=monaco-editor)

## How to use

Execute [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app) with [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/init), [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/cli/create/), [pnpm](https://pnpm.io), or [Bun](https://bun.sh/docs/cli/bunx) to bootstrap the example:

```bash
npx create-next-app --example monaco-editor monaco-editor-app
```

```bash
yarn create next-app --example monaco-editor monaco-editor-app
```

```bash
pnpm create next-app --example monaco-editor monaco-editor-app
```

```bash
bunx create-next-app --example monaco-editor monaco-editor-app
```

Deploy it to the cloud with [Vercel](https://vercel.com/new?utm_source=github&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=next-example) ([Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/deployment)).
