errors/failed-to-find-server-action.mdx, before:

---
title: Failed to find Server Action
---

## Why This Message Occurred

For security purposes, Next.js creates encrypted, non-deterministic keys (IDs) to allow for the client to reference and call the [Server Action](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions-and-mutations). These keys are periodically recalculated between builds for enhanced security.

When self-hosting your Next.js application across multiple servers, each server instance may end up with a different encryption key, leading to potential inconsistencies.

## Possible Ways to Fix It

To mitigate this, you can overwrite the encryption key using the `process.env.NEXT_SERVER_ACTIONS_ENCRYPTION_KEY` environment variable. Specifying this variable ensures that your encryption keys are persistent across builds, and all server instances use the same key. This variable **must** be AES-GCM encrypted.

In a non-self-hosted environment, you can use a feature such as [Skew Protection](https://vercel.com/docs/deployments/skew-protection) to ensure assets and functions from the previous version are still available, even after a new version is deployed.

## Useful Links

- [Server Actions - Security](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions-and-mutations#security)
- [Overwriting encryption keys (advanced)](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions-and-mutations#overwriting-encryption-keys-advanced)

Commit message:

docs(errors): minor update to failed-to-find-server-action error page (#76296)
## Why?

Follow up to https://github.com/vercel/next.js/pull/75678#discussion_r1964355401.

errors/failed-to-find-server-action.mdx, after:

---
title: Failed to find Server Action
---

## Why This Message Occurred

For security purposes, Next.js creates encrypted, non-deterministic keys (IDs) to allow for the client to reference and call the [Server Action](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions-and-mutations). These keys are periodically recalculated between builds for enhanced security.

When self-hosting your Next.js application across multiple servers, each server instance may end up with a different encryption key, leading to potential inconsistencies.

## Possible Ways to Fix It

To mitigate this, you can overwrite the encryption key using the `process.env.NEXT_SERVER_ACTIONS_ENCRYPTION_KEY` environment variable. Specifying this variable ensures that your encryption keys are persistent across builds, and all server instances use the same key. This variable **must** be AES-GCM encrypted.

If you are deploying your Next.js application to Vercel, you can use the feature [Skew Protection](https://vercel.com/docs/deployments/skew-protection) to ensure assets and functions from the previous version are still available, even after a new version is deployed.

## Useful Links

- [Server Actions - Security](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions-and-mutations#security)
- [Overwriting encryption keys (advanced)](/docs/app/building-your-application/data-fetching/server-actions-and-mutations#overwriting-encryption-keys-advanced)
