docs/02-app/02-api-reference/06-create-next-app.mdx, before:

---
title: create-next-app
description: Create Next.js apps in one command with create-next-app.
---

{/* The content of this doc is shared between the app and pages router. You can use the `<PagesOnly>Content</PagesOnly>` component to add content that is specific to the Pages Router. Any shared content should not be wrapped in a component. */}

The easiest way to get started with Next.js is by using `create-next-app`. This CLI tool enables you to quickly start building a new Next.js application, with everything set up for you.

You can create a new app using the default Next.js template, or by using one of the [official Next.js examples](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples).

### Interactive

You can create a new project interactively by running:

```bash filename="Terminal"
npx create-next-app@latest
```

```bash filename="Terminal"
yarn create next-app
```

```bash filename="Terminal"
pnpm create next-app
```

```bash filename="Terminal"
bun create next-app
```

You will then be asked the following prompts:

```txt filename="Terminal"
What is your project named?  my-app
Would you like to use TypeScript?  No / Yes
Would you like to use ESLint?  No / Yes
Would you like to use Tailwind CSS?  No / Yes
Would you like your code inside a `src/` directory?  No / Yes
Would you like to use App Router? (recommended)  No / Yes
Would you like to use Turbopack for `next dev`?  No / Yes
Would you like to customize the import alias (`@/*` by default)?  No / Yes
```

Once you've answered the prompts, a new project will be created with the correct configuration depending on your answers.

### Non-interactive

You can also pass command line arguments to set up a new project non-interactively.

Further, you can negate default options by prefixing them with `--no-` (e.g. `--no-eslint`).

See `create-next-app --help`:

```bash filename="Terminal"
Usage: create-next-app [project-directory] [options]

Options:
  -V, --version                        output the version number
  --ts, --typescript

    Initialize as a TypeScript project. (default)

  --js, --javascript

    Initialize as a JavaScript project.

  --tailwind

    Initialize with Tailwind CSS config. (default)

  --eslint

    Initialize with ESLint config.

  --app

    Initialize as an App Router project.

  --src-dir

    Initialize inside a `src/` directory.

  --turbo

    Enable Turbopack by default for development.

  --import-alias <alias-to-configure>

    Specify import alias to use (default "@/*").

  --empty

    Initialize an empty project.

  --use-npm

    Explicitly tell the CLI to bootstrap the app using npm

  --use-pnpm

    Explicitly tell the CLI to bootstrap the app using pnpm

  --use-yarn

    Explicitly tell the CLI to bootstrap the app using Yarn

  --use-bun

    Explicitly tell the CLI to bootstrap the app using Bun

  -e, --example [name]|[github-url]

    An example to bootstrap the app with. You can use an example name
    from the official Next.js repo or a public GitHub URL. The URL can use
    any branch and/or subdirectory

  --example-path <path-to-example>

    In a rare case, your GitHub URL might contain a branch name with
    a slash (e.g. bug/fix-1) and the path to the example (e.g. foo/bar).
    In this case, you must specify the path to the example separately:
    --example-path foo/bar

  --reset-preferences

    Explicitly tell the CLI to reset any stored preferences

  --skip-install

    Explicitly tell the CLI to skip installing packages

  -h, --help                           output usage information
```

### Why use Create Next App?

`create-next-app` allows you to create a new Next.js app within seconds. It is officially maintained by the creators of Next.js, and includes a number of benefits:

- **Interactive Experience**: Running `npx create-next-app@latest` (with no arguments) launches an interactive experience that guides you through setting up a project.
- **Zero Dependencies**: Initializing a project is as quick as one second. Create Next App has zero dependencies.
- **Offline Support**: Create Next App will automatically detect if you're offline and bootstrap your project using your local package cache.
- **Support for Examples**: Create Next App can bootstrap your application using an example from the Next.js examples collection (e.g. `npx create-next-app --example api-routes`) or any public GitHub repository.
- **Tested**: The package is part of the Next.js monorepo and tested using the same integration test suite as Next.js itself, ensuring it works as expected with every release.

Commit message:

Add `--yes` option to create-next-app
This is a small improvement for power users that run `create-next-app`
frequently, using the same preferences. By specifying the `--yes` option
along with the project name, they won't be prompted for any preferences.
Instead, the previously used preferences are automatically chosen, using
the defaults as fallback.

docs/02-app/02-api-reference/06-create-next-app.mdx, after:

---
title: create-next-app
description: Create Next.js apps in one command with create-next-app.
---

{/* The content of this doc is shared between the app and pages router. You can use the `<PagesOnly>Content</PagesOnly>` component to add content that is specific to the Pages Router. Any shared content should not be wrapped in a component. */}

The easiest way to get started with Next.js is by using `create-next-app`. This CLI tool enables you to quickly start building a new Next.js application, with everything set up for you.

You can create a new app using the default Next.js template, or by using one of the [official Next.js examples](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples).

### Interactive

You can create a new project interactively by running:

```bash filename="Terminal"
npx create-next-app@latest
```

```bash filename="Terminal"
yarn create next-app
```

```bash filename="Terminal"
pnpm create next-app
```

```bash filename="Terminal"
bun create next-app
```

You will then be asked the following prompts:

```txt filename="Terminal"
What is your project named?  my-app
Would you like to use TypeScript?  No / Yes
Would you like to use ESLint?  No / Yes
Would you like to use Tailwind CSS?  No / Yes
Would you like your code inside a `src/` directory?  No / Yes
Would you like to use App Router? (recommended)  No / Yes
Would you like to use Turbopack for `next dev`?  No / Yes
Would you like to customize the import alias (`@/*` by default)?  No / Yes
```

Once you've answered the prompts, a new project will be created with the correct configuration depending on your answers.

### Non-interactive

You can also pass command line arguments to set up a new project non-interactively.

Further, you can negate default options by prefixing them with `--no-` (e.g. `--no-eslint`).

See `create-next-app --help`:

```bash filename="Terminal"
Usage: create-next-app [project-directory] [options]

Options:
  -V, --version                        output the version number
  --ts, --typescript

    Initialize as a TypeScript project. (default)

  --js, --javascript

    Initialize as a JavaScript project.

  --tailwind

    Initialize with Tailwind CSS config. (default)

  --eslint

    Initialize with ESLint config.

  --app

    Initialize as an App Router project.

  --src-dir

    Initialize inside a `src/` directory.

  --turbo

    Enable Turbopack by default for development.

  --import-alias <alias-to-configure>

    Specify import alias to use (default "@/*").

  --empty

    Initialize an empty project.

  --use-npm

    Explicitly tell the CLI to bootstrap the application using npm

  --use-pnpm

    Explicitly tell the CLI to bootstrap the application using pnpm

  --use-yarn

    Explicitly tell the CLI to bootstrap the application using Yarn

  --use-bun

    Explicitly tell the CLI to bootstrap the application using Bun

  -e, --example [name]|[github-url]

    An example to bootstrap the app with. You can use an example name
    from the official Next.js repo or a GitHub URL. The URL can use
    any branch and/or subdirectory

  --example-path <path-to-example>

    In a rare case, your GitHub URL might contain a branch name with
    a slash (e.g. bug/fix-1) and the path to the example (e.g. foo/bar).
    In this case, you must specify the path to the example separately:
    --example-path foo/bar

  --reset-preferences

    Explicitly tell the CLI to reset any stored preferences

  --skip-install

    Explicitly tell the CLI to skip installing packages

  --yes

    Use previous preferences or defaults for all options that were not
    explicitly specified, without prompting.

  -h, --help                           display help for command
```

### Why use Create Next App?

`create-next-app` allows you to create a new Next.js app within seconds. It is officially maintained by the creators of Next.js, and includes a number of benefits:

- **Interactive Experience**: Running `npx create-next-app@latest` (with no arguments) launches an interactive experience that guides you through setting up a project.
- **Zero Dependencies**: Initializing a project is as quick as one second. Create Next App has zero dependencies.
- **Offline Support**: Create Next App will automatically detect if you're offline and bootstrap your project using your local package cache.
- **Support for Examples**: Create Next App can bootstrap your application using an example from the Next.js examples collection (e.g. `npx create-next-app --example api-routes`) or any public GitHub repository.
- **Tested**: The package is part of the Next.js monorepo and tested using the same integration test suite as Next.js itself, ensuring it works as expected with every release.
