docs/01-app/04-api-reference/05-config/01-next-config-js/staleTimes.mdx, before:

---
title: staleTimes
description: Learn how to override the invalidation time of the Client Router Cache.
version: experimental
---

`staleTimes` is an experimental feature that enables caching of page segments in the [client-side router cache](/docs/app/building-your-application/caching#client-side-router-cache).

You can enable this experimental feature and provide custom revalidation times by setting the experimental `staleTimes` flag:

```js filename="next.config.js"
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  experimental: {
    staleTimes: {
      dynamic: 30,
      static: 180,
    },
  },
}

module.exports = nextConfig
```

The `static` and `dynamic` properties correspond with the time period (in seconds) based on different types of [link prefetching](/docs/app/api-reference/components/link#prefetch).

- The `dynamic` property is used when the page is neither statically generated nor fully prefetched (e.g. with `prefetch={true}`).
  - Default: 0 seconds (not cached)
- The `static` property is used for statically generated pages, or when the `prefetch` prop on `Link` is set to `true`, or when calling [`router.prefetch`](/docs/app/building-your-application/caching#routerprefetch).
  - Default: 5 minutes

> **Good to know:**
>
> - [Loading boundaries](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/loading) are considered reusable for the `static` period defined in this configuration.
> - This doesn't affect [partial rendering](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/linking-and-navigating#4-partial-rendering), **meaning shared layouts won't automatically be refetched on every navigation, only the page segment that changes.**
> - This doesn't change [back/forward caching](/docs/app/building-your-application/caching#client-side-router-cache) behavior to prevent layout shift and to prevent losing the browser scroll position.

You can learn more about the Client Router Cache [here](/docs/app/building-your-application/caching#client-side-router-cache).

### Version History

| Version   | Changes                                                    |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| `v15.0.0` | The `dynamic` `staleTimes` default changed from 30s to 0s. |
| `v14.2.0` | Experimental `staleTimes` introduced.                      |

Commit message:

Add note on staleTimes and expireTime affecting the default cache profile

docs/01-app/04-api-reference/05-config/01-next-config-js/staleTimes.mdx, after:

---
title: staleTimes
description: Learn how to override the invalidation time of the Client Router Cache.
version: experimental
---

`staleTimes` is an experimental feature that enables caching of page segments in the [client-side router cache](/docs/app/building-your-application/caching#client-side-router-cache).

You can enable this experimental feature and provide custom revalidation times by setting the experimental `staleTimes` flag:

```js filename="next.config.js"
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  experimental: {
    staleTimes: {
      dynamic: 30,
      static: 180,
    },
  },
}

module.exports = nextConfig
```

The `static` and `dynamic` properties correspond with the time period (in seconds) based on different types of [link prefetching](/docs/app/api-reference/components/link#prefetch).

- The `dynamic` property is used when the page is neither statically generated nor fully prefetched (e.g. with `prefetch={true}`).
  - Default: 0 seconds (not cached)
- The `static` property is used for statically generated pages, or when the `prefetch` prop on `Link` is set to `true`, or when calling [`router.prefetch`](/docs/app/building-your-application/caching#routerprefetch).
  - Default: 5 minutes

> **Good to know:**
>
> - Changing the `staleTimes` value will also update the `stale` property of the [`default` cache profile](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cacheLife#default-cache-profiles).
> - [Loading boundaries](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/loading) are considered reusable for the `static` period defined in this configuration.
> - This doesn't affect [partial rendering](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/linking-and-navigating#4-partial-rendering), **meaning shared layouts won't automatically be refetched on every navigation, only the page segment that changes.**
> - This doesn't change [back/forward caching](/docs/app/building-your-application/caching#client-side-router-cache) behavior to prevent layout shift and to prevent losing the browser scroll position.

You can learn more about the Client Router Cache [here](/docs/app/building-your-application/caching#client-side-router-cache).

### Version History

| Version   | Changes                                                    |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| `v15.0.0` | The `dynamic` `staleTimes` default changed from 30s to 0s. |
| `v14.2.0` | Experimental `staleTimes` introduced.                      |
