docs/01-app/04-api-reference/05-config/01-next-config-js/viewTransition.mdx, before:

---
title: ViewTransition
description: Enable ViewTransition API from React in App Router
version: experimental
---

`viewTransition` is an experimental feature that a feature flag to enable the new experimental [View Transitions API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/View_Transition_API) with React. This new API allows you to leverage the View Transition browser API to create seamless transitions.

To enable this feature, you need to set the `viewTransition` property to `true` in your `next.config.js` file.

```js filename="next.config.js"
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  experimental: {
    viewTransition: true,
  },
}

module.exports = nextConfig
```

> Note: This feature is highly experimental and may change in future releases.

## Usage

Once enabled, you can import the `ViewTransition` component from React in your application:

```jsx
import { unstable_ViewTransition as ViewTransition } from 'react'
```

For more details on how to use this feature, refer to the [original View Transitions pull request](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/31975) in the React repository. This feature builds upon the native browser implementation of View Transitions.

### Live Demo

Check out our [Next.js View Transition Demo](https://view-transition-example.vercel.app) to see this feature in action.

We will continue to expand our documentation and examples as this API evolves.

Commit message:

docs: reword the docs of veiw transition flag (#76841)
### What

Mention it's experimental feature and maintained by react team, we're
still developing it

---------

Co-authored-by: JJ Kasper <jj@jjsweb.site>

docs/01-app/04-api-reference/05-config/01-next-config-js/viewTransition.mdx, after:

---
title: ViewTransition
description: Enable ViewTransition API from React in App Router
version: experimental
---

`viewTransition` is an experimental flag that enables the new experimental [View Transitions API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/View_Transition_API) in React. This API allows you to leverage the native View Transitions browser API to create seamless transitions between UI states.

To enable this feature, you need to set the `viewTransition` property to `true` in your `next.config.js` file.

```js filename="next.config.js"
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  experimental: {
    viewTransition: true,
  },
}

module.exports = nextConfig
```

> Important Notice: This feature is not developed or maintained by the Next.js team — it is an experimental API from the React team. It is still in **early stages** and **not recommended for production use**. The implementation is still being iterated on, and its behavior may change in future React releases.
> Enabling this feature requires understanding the experimental nature of the API. To fully grasp its behavior, refer to the [React pull request](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/31975) and related discussions.

## Usage

Once enabled, you can import the `ViewTransition` component from React in your application:

```jsx
import { unstable_ViewTransition as ViewTransition } from 'react'
```

However, documentation and examples are currently limited, and you will need to refer directly to React’s source code and discussions to understand how this works.

### Live Demo

Check out our [Next.js View Transition Demo](https://view-transition-example.vercel.app) to see this feature in action.

As this API evolves, we will update our documentation and share more examples. However, for now, we strongly advise against using this feature in production.
