docs/02-app/01-building-your-application/11-upgrading/02-version-15.mdx, before:

---
title: Version 15
description: Upgrade your Next.js Application from Version 14 to 15.
---

{/* The content of this doc is shared between the app and pages router. You can use the `<PagesOnly>Content</PagesOnly>` component to add content that is specific to the Pages Router. Any shared content should not be wrapped in a component. */}

## Upgrading from 14 to 15

To update to Next.js version 15, run the following command using your preferred package manager:

```bash filename="Terminal"
npm i next@rc react@rc react-dom@rc eslint-config-next@rc
```

```bash filename="Terminal"
yarn add next@rc react@rc react-dom@rc eslint-config-next@rc
```

```bash filename="Terminal"
pnpm up next@rc react@rc react-dom@rc eslint-config-next@rc
```

```bash filename="Terminal"
bun add next@rc react@rc react-dom@rc eslint-config-next@rc
```

> **Good to know:** If you are using TypeScript, ensure you also upgrade `@types/react` and `@types/react-dom` to their latest versions.

## Minimum React version

- The minimum `react` and `react-dom` is now 19.

## `fetch` requests

[`fetch` requests](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/fetch) are no longer cached by default.

To opt specific `fetch` requests into caching, you can pass the `cache: 'force-cache'` option.

```js filename="app/layout.js"
export default async function RootLayout() {
  const a = await fetch('https://...') // Not Cached
  const b = await fetch('https://...', { cache: 'force-cache' }) // Cached

  // ...
}
```

To opt all `fetch` requests in a layout or page into caching, you can use the `export const fetchCache = 'default-cache'` [segment config option](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route-segment-config). If individual `fetch` requests specify a `cache` option, that will be used instead.

```js filename="app/layout.js"
// Since this is the root layout, all fetch requests in the app
// that don't set their own cache option will be cached.
export const fetchCache = 'default-cache'

export default async function RootLayout() {
  const a = await fetch('https://...') // Cached
  const b = await fetch('https://...', { cache: 'no-store' }) // Not cached

  // ...
}
```

## Route Handlers

`GET` functions in [Route Handlers](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route) are no longer cached by default. To opt `GET` methods into caching, you can use a [route config option](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route-segment-config) such as `export const dynamic = 'force-static'` in your Route Handler file.

```js filename="app/api/route.js"
export const dynamic = 'force-static'

export async function GET() {}
```

## Client-side Router Cache

When navigating between pages via `<Link>` or `useRouter`, [page](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/page) segments are no longer reused from the client-side router cache. However, they are still reused during browser backward and forward navigation and for shared layouts.

To opt page segments into caching, you can use the [`staleTimes`](/docs/app/api-reference/next-config-js/staleTimes) config option:

```js filename="next.config.js"
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  experimental: {
    staleTimes: {
      dynamic: 30,
      static: 180,
    },
  },
}

module.exports = nextConfig
```

[Layouts](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/layout) and [loading states](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/loading) are still cached and reused on navigation.

## `next/font`

The `@next/font` package has been removed in favor of the built-in [`next/font`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/font). A [codemod is available](/docs/app/building-your-application/upgrading/codemods#built-in-next-font) to safely and automatically rename your imports.

```js filename="app/layout.js"
// Before
import { Inter } from '@next/font/google'

// After
import { Inter } from 'next/font/google'
```

## bundlePagesRouterDependencies

`experimental.bundlePagesExternals` is now stable and renamed to `bundlePagesRouterDependencies`.

```js filename="next.config.js"
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  // Before
  experimental: {
    bundlePagesExternals: true,
  },

  // After
  bundlePagesRouterDependencies: true,
}

module.exports = nextConfig
```

## serverExternalPackages

`experimental.serverComponentsExternalPackages` is now stable and renamed to `serverExternalPackages`.

```js filename="next.config.js"
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  // Before
  experimental: {
    serverComponentsExternalPackages: ['package-name'],
  },

  // After
  serverExternalPackages: ['package-name'],
}

module.exports = nextConfig
```

## Speed Insights

Auto instrumentation for Speed Insights was removed in Next.js 15.

To continue using Speed Insights, follow the [Vercel Speed Insights Quickstart](https://vercel.com/docs/speed-insights/quickstart) guide.

Commit message:

Docs: Add note about RC deps (#68591)
Add helper notes for those struggling to upgrade to React 19 RC when
using Next.js RC.
[NDX-118](https://linear.app/vercel/issue/NDX-118/update-note-on-react-rc-versions-when-upgrading-to-nextjs-15-rc)

---------

Co-authored-by: Amy Burns <amy.burns@vercel.com>

docs/02-app/01-building-your-application/11-upgrading/02-version-15.mdx, after:

---
title: Version 15
description: Upgrade your Next.js Application from Version 14 to 15.
---

{/* The content of this doc is shared between the app and pages router. You can use the `<PagesOnly>Content</PagesOnly>` component to add content that is specific to the Pages Router. Any shared content should not be wrapped in a component. */}

## Upgrading from 14 to 15

To update to Next.js version 15, run the following command using your preferred package manager:

```bash filename="Terminal"
npm i next@rc react@rc react-dom@rc eslint-config-next@rc
```

```bash filename="Terminal"
yarn add next@rc react@rc react-dom@rc eslint-config-next@rc
```

```bash filename="Terminal"
pnpm up next@rc react@rc react-dom@rc eslint-config-next@rc
```

```bash filename="Terminal"
bun add next@rc react@rc react-dom@rc eslint-config-next@rc
```

> **Good to know:**
>
> - If you see a peer dependencies warning, you may need to update `react` and `react-dom` to the suggested versions, or you use the `--force` or `--legacy-peer-deps` flag to ignore the warning. This won't be necessary once both Next.js 15 and React 19 are stable.
> - If you are using TypeScript, you'll need to temporarily override the React types. See the [React 19 RC upgrade guide](https://react.dev/blog/2024/04/25/react-19-upgrade-guide#installing) for more information.

## Minimum React version

- The minimum `react` and `react-dom` is now 19.

## `fetch` requests

[`fetch` requests](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/fetch) are no longer cached by default.

To opt specific `fetch` requests into caching, you can pass the `cache: 'force-cache'` option.

```js filename="app/layout.js"
export default async function RootLayout() {
  const a = await fetch('https://...') // Not Cached
  const b = await fetch('https://...', { cache: 'force-cache' }) // Cached

  // ...
}
```

To opt all `fetch` requests in a layout or page into caching, you can use the `export const fetchCache = 'default-cache'` [segment config option](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route-segment-config). If individual `fetch` requests specify a `cache` option, that will be used instead.

```js filename="app/layout.js"
// Since this is the root layout, all fetch requests in the app
// that don't set their own cache option will be cached.
export const fetchCache = 'default-cache'

export default async function RootLayout() {
  const a = await fetch('https://...') // Cached
  const b = await fetch('https://...', { cache: 'no-store' }) // Not cached

  // ...
}
```

## Route Handlers

`GET` functions in [Route Handlers](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route) are no longer cached by default. To opt `GET` methods into caching, you can use a [route config option](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route-segment-config) such as `export const dynamic = 'force-static'` in your Route Handler file.

```js filename="app/api/route.js"
export const dynamic = 'force-static'

export async function GET() {}
```

## Client-side Router Cache

When navigating between pages via `<Link>` or `useRouter`, [page](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/page) segments are no longer reused from the client-side router cache. However, they are still reused during browser backward and forward navigation and for shared layouts.

To opt page segments into caching, you can use the [`staleTimes`](/docs/app/api-reference/next-config-js/staleTimes) config option:

```js filename="next.config.js"
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  experimental: {
    staleTimes: {
      dynamic: 30,
      static: 180,
    },
  },
}

module.exports = nextConfig
```

[Layouts](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/layout) and [loading states](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/loading) are still cached and reused on navigation.

## `next/font`

The `@next/font` package has been removed in favor of the built-in [`next/font`](/docs/app/api-reference/components/font). A [codemod is available](/docs/app/building-your-application/upgrading/codemods#built-in-next-font) to safely and automatically rename your imports.

```js filename="app/layout.js"
// Before
import { Inter } from '@next/font/google'

// After
import { Inter } from 'next/font/google'
```

## bundlePagesRouterDependencies

`experimental.bundlePagesExternals` is now stable and renamed to `bundlePagesRouterDependencies`.

```js filename="next.config.js"
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  // Before
  experimental: {
    bundlePagesExternals: true,
  },

  // After
  bundlePagesRouterDependencies: true,
}

module.exports = nextConfig
```

## serverExternalPackages

`experimental.serverComponentsExternalPackages` is now stable and renamed to `serverExternalPackages`.

```js filename="next.config.js"
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  // Before
  experimental: {
    serverComponentsExternalPackages: ['package-name'],
  },

  // After
  serverExternalPackages: ['package-name'],
}

module.exports = nextConfig
```

## Speed Insights

Auto instrumentation for Speed Insights was removed in Next.js 15.

To continue using Speed Insights, follow the [Vercel Speed Insights Quickstart](https://vercel.com/docs/speed-insights/quickstart) guide.
