docs/02-app/02-api-reference/04-functions/generate-static-params.mdx, before:

---
title: generateStaticParams
description: API reference for the generateStaticParams function.
---

The `generateStaticParams` function can be used in combination with [dynamic route segments](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/dynamic-routes) to [**statically generate**](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/server-components#static-rendering-default) routes at build time instead of on-demand at request time.

```jsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.js"
// Return a list of `params` to populate the [slug] dynamic segment
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const posts = await fetch('https://.../posts').then((res) => res.json())

  return posts.map((post) => ({
    slug: post.slug,
  }))
}

// Multiple versions of this page will be statically generated
// using the `params` returned by `generateStaticParams`
export default function Page({ params }) {
  const { slug } = params
  // ...
}
```

> **Good to know**
>
> - You can use the [`dynamicParams`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route-segment-config#dynamicparams) segment config option to control what happens when a dynamic segment is visited that was not generated with `generateStaticParams`.
> - You must always return [an array from `generateStaticParams`](#all-paths-at-build-time), even if it's empty.
> - During `next dev`, `generateStaticParams` will be called when you navigate to a route.
> - During `next build`, `generateStaticParams` runs before the corresponding Layouts or Pages are generated.
> - During revalidation (ISR), `generateStaticParams` will not be called again.
> - `generateStaticParams` replaces the [`getStaticPaths`](/docs/pages/api-reference/functions/get-static-paths) function in the Pages Router.

## Parameters

`options.params` (optional)

If multiple dynamic segments in a route use `generateStaticParams`, the child `generateStaticParams` function is executed once for each set of `params` the parent generates.

The `params` object contains the populated `params` from the parent `generateStaticParams`, which can be used to [generate the `params` in a child segment](#multiple-dynamic-segments-in-a-route).

## Returns

`generateStaticParams` should return an array of objects where each object represents the populated dynamic segments of a single route.

- Each property in the object is a dynamic segment to be filled in for the route.
- The properties name is the segment's name, and the properties value is what that segment should be filled in with.

| Example Route                    | `generateStaticParams` Return Type        |
| -------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `/product/[id]`                  | `{ id: string }[]`                        |
| `/products/[category]/[product]` | `{ category: string, product: string }[]` |
| `/products/[...slug]`            | `{ slug: string[] }[]`                    |

## Single Dynamic Segment

```tsx filename="app/product/[id]/page.tsx" switcher
export function generateStaticParams() {
  return [{ id: '1' }, { id: '2' }, { id: '3' }]
}

// Three versions of this page will be statically generated
// using the `params` returned by `generateStaticParams`
// - /product/1
// - /product/2
// - /product/3
export default function Page({ params }: { params: { id: string } }) {
  const { id } = params
  // ...
}
```

```jsx filename="app/product/[id]/page.js" switcher
export function generateStaticParams() {
  return [{ id: '1' }, { id: '2' }, { id: '3' }]
}

// Three versions of this page will be statically generated
// using the `params` returned by `generateStaticParams`
// - /product/1
// - /product/2
// - /product/3
export default function Page({ params }) {
  const { id } = params
  // ...
}
```

## Multiple Dynamic Segments

```tsx filename="app/products/[category]/[product]/page.tsx" switcher
export function generateStaticParams() {
  return [
    { category: 'a', product: '1' },
    { category: 'b', product: '2' },
    { category: 'c', product: '3' },
  ]
}

// Three versions of this page will be statically generated
// using the `params` returned by `generateStaticParams`
// - /products/a/1
// - /products/b/2
// - /products/c/3
export default function Page({
  params,
}: {
  params: { category: string; product: string }
}) {
  const { category, product } = params
  // ...
}
```

```jsx filename="app/products/[category]/[product]/page.js" switcher
export function generateStaticParams() {
  return [
    { category: 'a', product: '1' },
    { category: 'b', product: '2' },
    { category: 'c', product: '3' },
  ]
}

// Three versions of this page will be statically generated
// using the `params` returned by `generateStaticParams`
// - /products/a/1
// - /products/b/2
// - /products/c/3
export default function Page({ params }) {
  const { category, product } = params
  // ...
}
```

## Catch-all Dynamic Segment

```tsx filename="app/product/[...slug]/page.tsx" switcher
export function generateStaticParams() {
  return [{ slug: ['a', '1'] }, { slug: ['b', '2'] }, { slug: ['c', '3'] }]
}

// Three versions of this page will be statically generated
// using the `params` returned by `generateStaticParams`
// - /product/a/1
// - /product/b/2
// - /product/c/3
export default function Page({ params }: { params: { slug: string[] } }) {
  const { slug } = params
  // ...
}
```

```jsx filename="app/product/[...slug]/page.js" switcher
export function generateStaticParams() {
  return [{ slug: ['a', '1'] }, { slug: ['b', '2'] }, { slug: ['c', '3'] }]
}

// Three versions of this page will be statically generated
// using the `params` returned by `generateStaticParams`
// - /product/a/1
// - /product/b/2
// - /product/c/3
export default function Page({ params }) {
  const { slug } = params
  // ...
}
```

## Examples

### Static Rendering

#### All paths at build time

To statically render all paths at build time, supply the full list of paths to `generateStaticParams`:

```tsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx" switcher
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const posts = await fetch('https://.../posts').then((res) => res.json())

  return posts.map((post) => ({
    slug: post.slug,
  }))
}
```

#### Subset of paths at build time

To statically render a subset of paths at build time, and the rest the first time they're visited at runtime, return a partial list of paths:

```tsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx" switcher
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const posts = await fetch('https://.../posts').then((res) => res.json())

  // Render the first 10 posts at build time
  return posts.slice(0, 10).map((post) => ({
    slug: post.slug,
  }))
}
```

Then, by using the [`dynamicParams`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route-segment-config#dynamicparams) segment config option, you can control what happens when a dynamic segment is visited that was not generated with `generateStaticParams`.

```jsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.js"
// All posts besides the top 10 will be a 404
export const dynamicParams = false

export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const posts = await fetch('https://.../posts').then((res) => res.json())
  const topPosts = posts.slice(0, 10)

  return topPosts.map((post) => ({
    slug: post.slug,
  }))
}
```

#### All paths at runtime

To statically render all paths the first time they're visited, return an empty array (no paths will be rendered at build time):

```tsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx" switcher
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  return []
}
```

> **Good to know:** You must always return an array from `generateStaticParams`, even if it's empty. Otherwise, the route will be dynamically rendered.

### Disable rendering for unspecified paths

To prevent unspecified paths from being statically rendered at runtime, add the `export const dynamicParams = false` option in a route segment. When this config option is used, only paths provided by `generateStaticParams` will be served, and unspecified routes will 404 or match (in the case of [catch-all routes](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/dynamic-routes#catch-all-segments)).

### Multiple Dynamic Segments in a Route

You can generate params for dynamic segments above the current layout or page, but **not below**. For example, given the `app/products/[category]/[product]` route:

- `app/products/[category]/[product]/page.js` can generate params for **both** `[category]` and `[product]`.
- `app/products/[category]/layout.js` can **only** generate params for `[category]`.

There are two approaches to generating params for a route with multiple dynamic segments:

#### Generate params from the bottom up

Generate multiple dynamic segments from the child route segment.

```tsx filename="app/products/[category]/[product]/page.tsx" switcher
// Generate segments for both [category] and [product]
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const products = await fetch('https://.../products').then((res) => res.json())

  return products.map((product) => ({
    category: product.category.slug,
    product: product.id,
  }))
}

export default function Page({
  params,
}: {
  params: { category: string; product: string }
}) {
  // ...
}
```

```jsx filename="app/products/[category]/[product]/page.js" switcher
// Generate segments for both [category] and [product]
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const products = await fetch('https://.../products').then((res) => res.json())

  return products.map((product) => ({
    category: product.category.slug,
    product: product.id,
  }))
}

export default function Page({ params }) {
  // ...
}
```

#### Generate params from the top down

Generate the parent segments first and use the result to generate the child segments.

```tsx filename="app/products/[category]/layout.tsx" switcher
// Generate segments for [category]
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const products = await fetch('https://.../products').then((res) => res.json())

  return products.map((product) => ({
    category: product.category.slug,
  }))
}

export default function Layout({ params }: { params: { category: string } }) {
  // ...
}
```

```jsx filename="app/products/[category]/layout.js" switcher
// Generate segments for [category]
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const products = await fetch('https://.../products').then((res) => res.json())

  return products.map((product) => ({
    category: product.category.slug,
  }))
}

export default function Layout({ params }) {
  // ...
}
```

A child route segment's `generateStaticParams` function is executed once for each segment a parent `generateStaticParams` generates.

The child `generateStaticParams` function can use the `params` returned from the parent `generateStaticParams` function to dynamically generate its own segments.

```tsx filename="app/products/[category]/[product]/page.tsx" switcher
// Generate segments for [product] using the `params` passed from
// the parent segment's `generateStaticParams` function
export async function generateStaticParams({
  params: { category },
}: {
  params: { category: string }
}) {
  const products = await fetch(
    `https://.../products?category=${category}`
  ).then((res) => res.json())

  return products.map((product) => ({
    product: product.id,
  }))
}

export default function Page({
  params,
}: {
  params: { category: string; product: string }
}) {
  // ...
}
```

```jsx filename="app/products/[category]/[product]/page.js" switcher
// Generate segments for [product] using the `params` passed from
// the parent segment's `generateStaticParams` function
export async function generateStaticParams({ params: { category } }) {
  const products = await fetch(
    `https://.../products?category=${category}`
  ).then((res) => res.json())

  return products.map((product) => ({
    product: product.id,
  }))
}

export default function Page({ params }) {
  // ...
}
```

> **Good to know**: `fetch` requests are automatically [memoized](/docs/app/building-your-application/caching#request-memoization) for the same data across all `generate`-prefixed functions, Layouts, Pages, and Server Components. React [`cache` can be used](/docs/app/building-your-application/caching#react-cache-function) if `fetch` is unavailable.

## Version History

| Version   | Changes                            |
| --------- | ---------------------------------- |
| `v13.0.0` | `generateStaticParams` introduced. |

Commit message:

docs(isr): update generateStaticParams-isr docs (#67056)
## Why?

You can also utilize `export cont dynamic = 'force-static'` to ISR pages
at runtime, instead of having to returning an empty array in
`generateStaticParams`.

x-ref: https://github.com/vercel/next.js/pull/66151,
https://github.com/vercel/next.js/issues/62195#issuecomment-2172549838

docs/02-app/02-api-reference/04-functions/generate-static-params.mdx, after:

---
title: generateStaticParams
description: API reference for the generateStaticParams function.
---

The `generateStaticParams` function can be used in combination with [dynamic route segments](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/dynamic-routes) to [**statically generate**](/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/server-components#static-rendering-default) routes at build time instead of on-demand at request time.

```jsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.js"
// Return a list of `params` to populate the [slug] dynamic segment
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const posts = await fetch('https://.../posts').then((res) => res.json())

  return posts.map((post) => ({
    slug: post.slug,
  }))
}

// Multiple versions of this page will be statically generated
// using the `params` returned by `generateStaticParams`
export default function Page({ params }) {
  const { slug } = params
  // ...
}
```

> **Good to know**
>
> - You can use the [`dynamicParams`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route-segment-config#dynamicparams) segment config option to control what happens when a dynamic segment is visited that was not generated with `generateStaticParams`.
> - You must return [an empty array from `generateStaticParams`](#all-paths-at-build-time) or utilize [`export const dynamic = 'force-static'`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route-segment-config#dynamic) in order to revalidate (ISR) [paths at runtime](#all-paths-at-runtime).
> - During `next dev`, `generateStaticParams` will be called when you navigate to a route.
> - During `next build`, `generateStaticParams` runs before the corresponding Layouts or Pages are generated.
> - During revalidation (ISR), `generateStaticParams` will not be called again.
> - `generateStaticParams` replaces the [`getStaticPaths`](/docs/pages/api-reference/functions/get-static-paths) function in the Pages Router.

## Parameters

`options.params` (optional)

If multiple dynamic segments in a route use `generateStaticParams`, the child `generateStaticParams` function is executed once for each set of `params` the parent generates.

The `params` object contains the populated `params` from the parent `generateStaticParams`, which can be used to [generate the `params` in a child segment](#multiple-dynamic-segments-in-a-route).

## Returns

`generateStaticParams` should return an array of objects where each object represents the populated dynamic segments of a single route.

- Each property in the object is a dynamic segment to be filled in for the route.
- The properties name is the segment's name, and the properties value is what that segment should be filled in with.

| Example Route                    | `generateStaticParams` Return Type        |
| -------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `/product/[id]`                  | `{ id: string }[]`                        |
| `/products/[category]/[product]` | `{ category: string, product: string }[]` |
| `/products/[...slug]`            | `{ slug: string[] }[]`                    |

## Single Dynamic Segment

```tsx filename="app/product/[id]/page.tsx" switcher
export function generateStaticParams() {
  return [{ id: '1' }, { id: '2' }, { id: '3' }]
}

// Three versions of this page will be statically generated
// using the `params` returned by `generateStaticParams`
// - /product/1
// - /product/2
// - /product/3
export default function Page({ params }: { params: { id: string } }) {
  const { id } = params
  // ...
}
```

```jsx filename="app/product/[id]/page.js" switcher
export function generateStaticParams() {
  return [{ id: '1' }, { id: '2' }, { id: '3' }]
}

// Three versions of this page will be statically generated
// using the `params` returned by `generateStaticParams`
// - /product/1
// - /product/2
// - /product/3
export default function Page({ params }) {
  const { id } = params
  // ...
}
```

## Multiple Dynamic Segments

```tsx filename="app/products/[category]/[product]/page.tsx" switcher
export function generateStaticParams() {
  return [
    { category: 'a', product: '1' },
    { category: 'b', product: '2' },
    { category: 'c', product: '3' },
  ]
}

// Three versions of this page will be statically generated
// using the `params` returned by `generateStaticParams`
// - /products/a/1
// - /products/b/2
// - /products/c/3
export default function Page({
  params,
}: {
  params: { category: string; product: string }
}) {
  const { category, product } = params
  // ...
}
```

```jsx filename="app/products/[category]/[product]/page.js" switcher
export function generateStaticParams() {
  return [
    { category: 'a', product: '1' },
    { category: 'b', product: '2' },
    { category: 'c', product: '3' },
  ]
}

// Three versions of this page will be statically generated
// using the `params` returned by `generateStaticParams`
// - /products/a/1
// - /products/b/2
// - /products/c/3
export default function Page({ params }) {
  const { category, product } = params
  // ...
}
```

## Catch-all Dynamic Segment

```tsx filename="app/product/[...slug]/page.tsx" switcher
export function generateStaticParams() {
  return [{ slug: ['a', '1'] }, { slug: ['b', '2'] }, { slug: ['c', '3'] }]
}

// Three versions of this page will be statically generated
// using the `params` returned by `generateStaticParams`
// - /product/a/1
// - /product/b/2
// - /product/c/3
export default function Page({ params }: { params: { slug: string[] } }) {
  const { slug } = params
  // ...
}
```

```jsx filename="app/product/[...slug]/page.js" switcher
export function generateStaticParams() {
  return [{ slug: ['a', '1'] }, { slug: ['b', '2'] }, { slug: ['c', '3'] }]
}

// Three versions of this page will be statically generated
// using the `params` returned by `generateStaticParams`
// - /product/a/1
// - /product/b/2
// - /product/c/3
export default function Page({ params }) {
  const { slug } = params
  // ...
}
```

## Examples

### Static Rendering

#### All paths at build time

To statically render all paths at build time, supply the full list of paths to `generateStaticParams`:

```tsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx" switcher
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const posts = await fetch('https://.../posts').then((res) => res.json())

  return posts.map((post) => ({
    slug: post.slug,
  }))
}
```

#### Subset of paths at build time

To statically render a subset of paths at build time, and the rest the first time they're visited at runtime, return a partial list of paths:

```tsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx" switcher
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const posts = await fetch('https://.../posts').then((res) => res.json())

  // Render the first 10 posts at build time
  return posts.slice(0, 10).map((post) => ({
    slug: post.slug,
  }))
}
```

Then, by using the [`dynamicParams`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route-segment-config#dynamicparams) segment config option, you can control what happens when a dynamic segment is visited that was not generated with `generateStaticParams`.

```jsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.js"
// All posts besides the top 10 will be a 404
export const dynamicParams = false

export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const posts = await fetch('https://.../posts').then((res) => res.json())
  const topPosts = posts.slice(0, 10)

  return topPosts.map((post) => ({
    slug: post.slug,
  }))
}
```

#### All paths at runtime

To statically render all paths the first time they're visited, return an empty array (no paths will be rendered at build time) or utilize [`export const dynamic = 'force-static'`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route-segment-config#dynamic):

```jsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.js"
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  return []
}
```

> **Good to know:** You must always return an array from `generateStaticParams`, even if it's empty. Otherwise, the route will be dynamically rendered.

```jsx filename="app/changelog/[slug]/page.js"
export const dynamic = 'force-static'
```

### Disable rendering for unspecified paths

To prevent unspecified paths from being statically rendered at runtime, add the `export const dynamicParams = false` option in a route segment. When this config option is used, only paths provided by `generateStaticParams` will be served, and unspecified routes will 404 or match (in the case of [catch-all routes](/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/dynamic-routes#catch-all-segments)).

### Multiple Dynamic Segments in a Route

You can generate params for dynamic segments above the current layout or page, but **not below**. For example, given the `app/products/[category]/[product]` route:

- `app/products/[category]/[product]/page.js` can generate params for **both** `[category]` and `[product]`.
- `app/products/[category]/layout.js` can **only** generate params for `[category]`.

There are two approaches to generating params for a route with multiple dynamic segments:

#### Generate params from the bottom up

Generate multiple dynamic segments from the child route segment.

```tsx filename="app/products/[category]/[product]/page.tsx" switcher
// Generate segments for both [category] and [product]
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const products = await fetch('https://.../products').then((res) => res.json())

  return products.map((product) => ({
    category: product.category.slug,
    product: product.id,
  }))
}

export default function Page({
  params,
}: {
  params: { category: string; product: string }
}) {
  // ...
}
```

```jsx filename="app/products/[category]/[product]/page.js" switcher
// Generate segments for both [category] and [product]
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const products = await fetch('https://.../products').then((res) => res.json())

  return products.map((product) => ({
    category: product.category.slug,
    product: product.id,
  }))
}

export default function Page({ params }) {
  // ...
}
```

#### Generate params from the top down

Generate the parent segments first and use the result to generate the child segments.

```tsx filename="app/products/[category]/layout.tsx" switcher
// Generate segments for [category]
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const products = await fetch('https://.../products').then((res) => res.json())

  return products.map((product) => ({
    category: product.category.slug,
  }))
}

export default function Layout({ params }: { params: { category: string } }) {
  // ...
}
```

```jsx filename="app/products/[category]/layout.js" switcher
// Generate segments for [category]
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const products = await fetch('https://.../products').then((res) => res.json())

  return products.map((product) => ({
    category: product.category.slug,
  }))
}

export default function Layout({ params }) {
  // ...
}
```

A child route segment's `generateStaticParams` function is executed once for each segment a parent `generateStaticParams` generates.

The child `generateStaticParams` function can use the `params` returned from the parent `generateStaticParams` function to dynamically generate its own segments.

```tsx filename="app/products/[category]/[product]/page.tsx" switcher
// Generate segments for [product] using the `params` passed from
// the parent segment's `generateStaticParams` function
export async function generateStaticParams({
  params: { category },
}: {
  params: { category: string }
}) {
  const products = await fetch(
    `https://.../products?category=${category}`
  ).then((res) => res.json())

  return products.map((product) => ({
    product: product.id,
  }))
}

export default function Page({
  params,
}: {
  params: { category: string; product: string }
}) {
  // ...
}
```

```jsx filename="app/products/[category]/[product]/page.js" switcher
// Generate segments for [product] using the `params` passed from
// the parent segment's `generateStaticParams` function
export async function generateStaticParams({ params: { category } }) {
  const products = await fetch(
    `https://.../products?category=${category}`
  ).then((res) => res.json())

  return products.map((product) => ({
    product: product.id,
  }))
}

export default function Page({ params }) {
  // ...
}
```

> **Good to know**: `fetch` requests are automatically [memoized](/docs/app/building-your-application/caching#request-memoization) for the same data across all `generate`-prefixed functions, Layouts, Pages, and Server Components. React [`cache` can be used](/docs/app/building-your-application/caching#react-cache-function) if `fetch` is unavailable.

## Version History

| Version   | Changes                            |
| --------- | ---------------------------------- |
| `v13.0.0` | `generateStaticParams` introduced. |
